Agus is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Agus lives in Hateno Village in East Necluda, where he grows vegetables to sell to the Dueling Peaks Stable in West Necluda. As such, he can be found working as a Merchant, traveling the roads between these locations with his Donkey. He uses the money from his vegetable sales to purchase meat at the Dueling Peaks Stable, which he exchanges to the people of his home town. He will offer to sell his stock to Link or purchase items from him, as well.
When Agus arrives in the Midla Woods, he will rest below a cliff near Hateno Village. He'll lament the fact that he can't relax in his hometown, since he has to gather fresh vegetables to bring back to Dueling Peaks Stable. After a while, he'll start to head back towards the stable.
Agus prefers Donkeys to Horses, claiming they're more his style. He claims that, while people talk about horsepower, they tend to forget about "donkeypower", which is the power to be friends. He calls his Donkey his buddy, which Link is apparently confused by.
On his journey, Agus will pass by Kakariko Village, explaining that he can't seem to sell anything there. While passing Lake Siela, Agus will grow nervous, being frightened if Link approaches him. He'll be relieved so see Link is a regular person and apologize. Agus explains that a while ago, he was scared by a tree ghost on the other side of the lake, so he ends up being a bit jumpy in this area. He'll keep an eye on this tree, asking Link if it's actually moving or if his eyes are playing tricks on him.
If Link saves Agus from an enemy attack, he might ask if Link is a famous swordsman, saying he should be one. He may also wonder what would have happened to him if Link hadn't come along, but soon dismisses this thought as he doesn't want to think about it. He can also comment that he thought Link was strong the first time he say him, and he ended up being proven right. In all scenarios, he will give Link a reward of either Food or a Cooking ingredient.
To make something delicious, Agus suggests Cooking Goat Butter and Tabantha Wheat together. There is apparently a third item that should be used, but he can't remember it. This recipe lines up with Hearty Salmon Muenière, Porgy Meunière, and Seafood Meunière.
If Link buys from him while it's raining, Agus will note that that many Merchants sell their best wares or cut deals when the weather is bad. However, Agus himself has no special offers during such scenarios. He reveals that he doesn't mind the rain, since it gives one a good excuse to stay put for a while.


=== Wares and Pricing ===


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Merchant
Hateno Village


== References ==