Amali is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Amali lives in Rito Village with her five daughters Kheel, Notts, Kotts, Cree, and Genli, and is the wife of Kass. Before the Divine Beast Vah Medoh has been appeased, Amali can be found on the platform near the Akh Va'quot Shrine with Kheel. Amali muses that Kheel insists on worrying her. If Link asks what is the matter, Amali explains that her youngest daughter Kheel wants to go to Warbler's Nest and will not stop talking about it. Her five daughters have been getting needier by the minute ever since the "beast", Medoh, appeared. At times like this she wishes he was around. Amali wishes she could be a kid again and think only of herself, but acknowledges that as a parent she has to be bigger than her childen. Amali tells Kheel to watch her language when she calls Divine Beast Vah Medoh a big jerk.
Afterwards, Link can encounter Amali by the Village's Cooking Pot. She asks him who he usually cooks for. If Link says he cooks for himself, Amali hopes she didn't ask too personal of a question. When she cooks, Amali wonders about the future of the village and her family. Her thoughts are dark, but they're lighter once she eats. She encourages him to use the Cooking Pot.
After Divine Beast Vah Medoh has been appeased, Amali is still on the platform, this time calling for Kheel. She turns to Link and says that she cannot find Kheel anywhere and wonders where she could be. Amali considers the possibility that she could have gone to Warbler's Nest to practice her singing. However, it is far away and Amali worries whether she could have made it there on her own. This initiates the Side Quest "Find Kheel".
Once Kheel has been found, Amali is relieved that she is at Warbler's Nest after all. She gives Link 50 Rupees as thanks for letting her know. Amali feels much better now that she knows where Kheel is and thanks Link again. It sets her mind at ease to know where her children are. Her daughters are gathering the ingredients necessary to make Salmon Muenière, since Genli will not sing with her sisters until she has some. She hopes they stay safe as they are all out gathering ingredients.
When Amali's daughters finish their recital at Warbler's Nest, they return to her in Rito Village. She hopes they are not causing Link too much grief. Upon Kass's return to the Village, Amali is inside her home and thanks Link for bringing her husband back. She says he is singing with his daughters at his usual place and that they could use an audience if Link has some time to spare.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Kass
Rito Village


== References ==