Not to be confused with Ashei, a character from Twilight Princess.

Ashai is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Ashai is a Gerudo who lives in Gerudo Town and teaches two classes to young girls before they depart from Gerudo Town. If Link speaks to Ashai while she is walking through Gerudo Town, she introduces herself and asks Link if he is interested in taking her class, "Voe and You". Ashai explains that she teaches a relationship class during the day and a Cooking class at night. Ashai encourages Link to attend the Cooking class at her home during the night and her relationship class in the barracks during the day.
Speaking to Ashai in the classroom in the barracks before her relationship class begins, she asks if Link is interested in sitting in. She then assures Link that there is no hurry and that class does not begin until everyone arrives.
If Link speaks to Ashai during her relationship class, she invites Link to observe if he is interested. If Link rejects her offer, Ashai asks if Link already has a loved one, to which Link scratches the back of his head in embarrassment. Ashai then explains that the young girls in her class have never even met a man before and that it is her duty to prepare them for the world outside of Gerudo Town.
Should Link agree to observe the class, Ashai instructs everyone to demonstrate what they have been learning. Ashai then asks the class what to do when a "handsome voe" approaches them on the street. Pasha stands up and answers that she would wave casually yet remain prepared in case he is a distraction for a bandit ambush. Ashai praises Pasha for her solution and then reminds the class that sometimes men only look suspicious from being intimidated by a Gerudo. Dina then stands up to share her solution, saying that she would enthusiastically greet the man and approach with her hands empty. Ashai praises Dina for her optimistic approach, adding that friendliness is a great way to relax others. Lastly, Risa stands to share her solution, saying that she would attack the man when he least suspects it. Ashai dismisses Risa's solution and tells her that it is a crime.
Ashai also asks her students what they would do if they encountered an injured voe lying on the ground. Pasha responds that she will lift him over her shoulder and take him to the nearest person who can treat him. Ashai will praise this answer, but she'll remind Pasha to check for non-visible injuries before she moves someone. Next, Dina says she would figure out what's wrong with him and then make a medicine to treat him. Once again, Ashai will say Dina has a great answer, but tells her to make sure he doesn't have any allergies to the ingredients she uses. Finally, Rina will say that she would secretly take the voe back to her home, where she would help him recover. Ashai will say that while Risa's sentiment is sweet, her plan is basically kidnapping.
For her third question, Ashai asks her students what they will do when they're approached and spoken to by a voe whose attention they've sought. Pasha says she would pretend not to speak his language. Ashai comments that her approach is interesting since it could inspire curiosity, and she explains it's unrealistic that he'll know the language she pretends to. Dina claims she'll take the opportunity to examine his clothes to determine his social status. Ashai commends Dina on her good thinking, but reminds her that sometimes, if someone's nice clothes are dirty, they may wear something more casual. Lastly, Risa says she would grab his hand and twist his wrist until he'd agree to marry her. Ashai is left without words, and she tells Risa to speak to her after class.
Before her Cooking class begins, she tells Link one might as well learn if there is more to learn. If Link agrees with her, she comments on Link's innocent expression. Ashai also explains to Link that she was planning a lesson on Creamy Heart Soup, but she forgot the name of the heart-shaped vegetable in the Recipe. Ashai assures herself that she will remember eventually.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Gerudo Town
Pasha
Dina
Risa


== References ==