Ashe is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Ashe is an old man who works at the Woodland Stable. During the day, he watches over the Stable's White Goats in their pen. At night, he can be found looking over his grandchild Shamae as she sleeps. When Link speaks to him, he'll identify he's not from the area due to the look on his face. He assists new travelers by telling them about the surrounding areas and giving directions to them, including the Eldin Region, Hyrule Field and the Great Hyrule Forest.
If Link asks, Ashe will tell him about Eldin, describing Death Mountain at its center. He tells Link that one can see the back of Death Mountain from the stable. Though he doesn't know why anyone would do so, he recommends climbing to the Maw of Death Mountain from Foothill Stable in Akkala. He also recommends Link figures out how to deal with the Scorching Climate before he heads up.
Ashe also talks about Hyrule Field, saying it's just south of the stable past Crenel Hills. He describes it as a beautiful place to live with no shortage of nature. He mentions Hyrule Castle Town and Hyrule Castle are both north of the field, and they used to be the center of culture or commerce in Hyrule Kingdom However, he warns Link to stay away from both the castle and the field, as he considers both to be dangerous. Ashe says he's sure Link has a family who cares about him, and he's seen too many people head into Hyrule Field and never come back.
When asked about the Great Hyrule Forest, Ashe will indicate that it's north of the stable, and it's the largest forest in Hyrule. He recounts a time where he had left to gather firewood at the Lost Woods as a young boy. He remembers venturing deep into the Woods when the wind suddenly started blowing in several directions. He ran away then, only to find himself outside the Woods as the fog lifted. He believes that there is something dangerous in the Lost Woods and warns Link to stay away. His story is actually a clue to navigating the Lost Woods, by following the wind's direction.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Woodland Stable
Breen
Kish
Shamae


== References ==