Barta is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Barta is a Gerudo soldier. If Link speaks to Liana or Leena in the barracks in Gerudo Town after speaking to Riju for the first time, Liana asks where Barta is. Leena explains that she went to the Yiga Clan Hideout two days ago and wonders what happened to her. Angered, Liana asks why she let Barta go by herself and Leena apologizes. Liana is upset that they now have to retrieve both the Thunder Helm and Barta. She expresses concern about Captain Teake finding out about it and Kotta asks what they should do, causing Liana to yell that she is thinking about it.
Link can then find Barta imprisoned in a cell within the Yiga Clan Hideout, where she gives Link a hint about the Yiga Clan's affinity for Mighty Bananas. After recovering the Thunder Helm, Barta returns to the barracks in Gerudo Town and tells Liana how helpful Link was to her. Barta will recognize Link from the Yiga Clan Hideout, explaining she was able to escape because they spread their forces thing looking for him. Quietly, she promises not to tell anyone that Link is a voe.
Barta disappears again after Link frees Divine Beast Vah Naboris. Speaking to the soldiers again, Liana is shocked to find Barta hasn't come back. Kotta explains that she went to investigate the Gerudo Great Skeleton., and Leena claims she tried to stop her this time. Liana points out that this obviously didn't work. Leena and Kotta try to rationalize their decisions, saying everyone knows the area is dangerous and to avoid it. This only angers Liana further, who remarks that Barta wouldn't ever realize she was walking right into danger. She wonders why Barta has to get in trouble all the time. Witnessing this conversation activates the Side Quest "The Search for Barta".
Link will find Barta on the brink of death, kneeling on the ground in the Gerudo Desert near the Gerudo Great Skeleton. Barta mutters about how she wishes she could have eaten a Hearty Durian one last time. After Link gives her a Hearty Durian, Barta will stand up and thank Link for saving her life. She laments heading out into the heat without the proper gear, but if Link is wearing the Gerudo Set, she notices he isn't wearing the proper gear either and says it's amazing he made it out there. If Link isn't wearing his disguise, she will recognize him and realize he's a man, mentioning that he seemed muscular for a Hylian woman. Barta promises to keep it a secret, especially because Link saved her life.
At first, Barta is so tired that she wants to rest just a bit longer before she returns to Gerudo Town. However, when Link informs her that Liana was furious, Barta realizes she's in trouble and decides to head back.
Upon returning to the barracks, Liana has heard that Link saved Barta. Liana will thank her with 100 Rupees and the Quest will be complete. After the Quest, Barta tells Link if he hadn't come along when he did, she wouldn't ever be able to meet the voe of her dreams. She wonders how things are going for Perda and mentions that she should go look for her special someone after everyone forgets how much trouble she is in.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Gerudo Town
Yiga Clan Hideout


== References ==