Bayge is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Bayge is the eldest of the Goron Blood Brothers, consisting of him and his brothers Heehl and Kabetta. Bayge, along with his brothers, is passionate about training in difficult feats of strength and endurance.  He lives with the rest of his brothers in a house in southern Goron City, which is now abandoned and left with a sign saying they have gone to the Gut Check Rock to train.
Bayge is involved in two Shrine Quests. One is the "Test of Will" Shrine Quest at Mount Nabooru in the Gerudo Highlands. Bayge and the other Goron Blood Brothers have traveled  to their ancestral training ground to train themselves to withstand the heat in Goron City. Bayge and the others challenge Link to join them by sitting in a ring of fire to see who can withstand the longest. Bayge is the last Goron to collapse before Link is declared the winner. The brothers then challenge him to a harder contest by standing on an even hotter platform, with Bayge commenting that clearing the challenge is said to reveal an Ancient Shrine. Beating both of their contests reveals the Joloo Nah Shrine.
Bayge is also involved in "The Gut Check Challenge" Shrine Quest at the Gut Check Rock in northern Eldin Canyon. Bayge is found sitting on the steps to the Gorae Torr Shrine atop the pinnacle, and refuses to let Link approach as the Shrine's platform is a sacred place to the Goron Blood Brothers. However, Bayge decides to let Link through if he can clear their training exercise, the Gut Check Challenge, wherein Link must climb the pinnacle while collecting enough Rupees. Upon clearing the Challenge, Bayge happily appoints Link as an honorary Goron Blood Brother and allows him to approach the Shrine. Bayge will then offer a much harder course called the Super Gut Check Challenge.
When The Champions' Ballad DLC Pack is active and Link is pursuing the "EX Champion Daruk's Song" Main Quest, the Goron Blood Brothers can be found at Darb Pond. Bayge recognizes Link as their fourth brother. He explains that Daruk used to train at this spot, and while he doesn't know why, he believes it was part of his training as a Champion. Therefore, the Goron Blood Brothers are training at this spot to become mighty Gorons just like Daruk was, claiming it's their only path.
Kabetta points out the ring and directs Link to stand on it, he comments that Gorons can't walk on lava and wonders if Daruk really did this training. Bayge points out that this makes Daruk hard-core. Due to the instensity of this training, he decides to take the time to strategize with is brothers. If Link speaks to him after, Bayge says Daruk would howl while standing on lava to sharped his skills.
Bayge notices when Link completes the training due to the ring's disappearance. He's disappointed that he can no longer attempt the training. After this, they return to Gut Check Rock.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Goron Blood Brothers
Heehl
Kabetta
Gut Check Rock


== References ==