Blynne is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Blynne is a Hylian who works at Highland Stable. He grew up taming Horses in the area, making him confident he's the best rider in Hyrule Kingdom. When Link first approaches him, Blynne asks if he's a nomad and supposes he's already seen the Horses nearby.
To prove his superiority with Horses, Blynne has developed a test to see who's better riding Horses, and he never loses. He'll ask Link if he has the grit to challenge the master, His test is a horseback obstacle course with ten different obstacles, and whoever has the best time wins. He guarantees that his race will help people master riding Horses. However, Blynne notes that the difficult part is controlling one's Horse. He promises Link horse gear if he can beat his time.
During the rain, Blynne will retreat into the stable. He won't feel like running his course, and he tells Link to come beat his time when the sun is out.
If Link tries to start the challenge without a Horse, Blynne will stop him. He tells Link to come back with a Horse when he's serious.
Entering the Obstacle Course will require a 20 Rupees fee. Before the race, he'll explain that Link must jump all of the obstacles before crossing the finish line. He also forbids Link from dismounting his horse.
When Link finishes but doesn't beat Blynne's time, Blynne will say he's impressed and gift Link a Swift Carrot for his Horse. He'll yell at Link if he gets off his Horse during the race. He notices something is eating at Link and says he'll need an attitude adjustment.
Blyne first suggests that Link aims to complete his race in less that one minute and thirty seconds. Once Link beats this time, he'll admit that he gets better every time he rides. As a reward for this, he'll give Link the Extravagant Bridle. Blynne's own record is one minute and fifteen seconds. If Link beats his record, Blynne states he never thought he'd see the day. He'll give Link the Extravagant Saddle as a reward.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Highland Stable


== References ==