"The Bokoblins are the most common monster found in Hyrule and could be found all throughout the land even before the Great Calamity. They live in loosely organized groups and build forts to ward off enemies. They are violent omnivores who prefer meat but will happily eat fruit in addtion to the game they hunt." -The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild: Creating a Champion about Bokoblins
Bokoblins,(TWW | TP | BotW | HWAoC) also known as Red Bokoblins,(SS | CoH) are recurring Enemies in the The Legend of Zelda series. They are common infantry units used by antagonists such as Ganon.


== Characteristics ==


=== The Wind Waker ===

Bokoblins are prevalent in The Wind Waker. They have snouts, arrow-shaped tails, three fingers and a single horn. Bokoblins come in three variants: Blue, Green, and Pink. The most common is the blue-skinned, Boko Stick-wielding combat form. Green-skinned elites carry Machete and wooden Shields. Pink Bokoblins carry [[Telescope#The Wind Waker HD|]], which they use to scan their surroundings and to attack. Unarmed Bokoblins will combat Link hand-to-hand until they can find an available weapon. They can wield any kind of Enemy Weapon as needed. They are even strong enough to wield Weapons such as Moblin Spears and Darknut Sword with one arm.[verification needed] The attack power remains the same, however.[clarification needed]
Bokoblins are more intelligent than their Moblin counterparts. Blue Bokoblins man the Searchlights in the Forsaken Fortress, demonstrating an understanding of machinery. Pink Bokoblins act as scouts on the Great Sea. They use their telescopes to scan the sea from Lookout Platform and rafts tied to Submarine. Bokoblins also recognize the danger of Bombs and will run away if Link pulls one out. One Green Bokoblin in Forsaken Fortress serves as the first Miniboss of the game. It guards Link's Sword which he dropped entering the fortress.
Bokoblins attack by swiping their Weapons at Link. Occasionally, Bokoblins will jump back and attempt to swing their Weapons at Link, which can send the young hero flying backwards if they make contact. Green Bokoblins are a little more versatile as they are able to defend themselves with their Shields. However, they are not particularly tough Enemies and can be defeated by most conventional Items in the game, especially Link's Sword. If they are knocked back, they may drop their Weapons, which Link can use against them. Unarmed Bokoblins will resort to jumping and kicking at Link to hurt him. Bokoblins, even the seafaring pink ones, cannot swim. Sometimes, when walking on a bridge, Bokoblins lose their balance and nearly fall, but manage to hang onto the edge. When this happens, a single hit of the Sword or some other Weapon causes the Bokoblin to fall and drown.
All Bokoblins carry one Joy Pendant, which may be dropped after they are defeated. These are easily stolen using the Grappling Hook.


=== Twilight Princess ===
In Twilight Princess, Bokoblins resemble long imp-like creatures; Bokoblins lack tails, fur, and horns, and are much less intelligent than other instances of them. They are common in the southern and parts of the eastern areas of Hyrule Field, and are prominent in Faron Woods, but are driven out by Link as he is traversing the Forest Temple. They are first encountered in their blue-skinned variant, which carries a small stick and is easily felled. Later, they appear in a purple color and wield Swords. Purple Bokoblins are surprisingly resilient, capable of withstanding much abuse before death. However, they share the mental drawbacks of their blue counterparts.
Uniquely, Bokoblins in Twilight Princess appear to socialize with each other: two can be seen talking with one another in an area of Faron Woods, somewhere along the path to the Forest Temple.


=== Skyward Sword ===
Fi's Comment:
Fi's Comment:
See also: Technoblin and Cursed Bokoblin
Red Bokoblins appear as a common type of Enemy in Skyward Sword, appearing in many places throughout the Hyrule. Their appearance resembles that of a Japanese Oni more so than their previous incarnations. Red Bokoblins have floppy ears as opposed to pointy ones, and noses instead of snouts. They are much bigger and stouter than previous Bokoblins (slightly larger than Link himself), and have an extra edge of difficulty. They can block attacks with their Weapons, and in order to defeat them, Link must slash around the Weapon. Red Bokoblins (Archer) are also able to wield Bows, while Red Bokoblin (Leader) may carry a Monster Horn with which they can summon more Red Bokoblins. This Monster Horn can be retrieved using the Whip. In addition to the Monster Horn, Red Bokoblins may sometimes drop Ornamental Skulls or Golden Skulls as Treasures when defeated. Red Bokoblins also have the ability to balance on tightropes, but will fall off if Link shakes the rope they are on or if they are hit with a projectile or the Beetle. Most Red Bokoblins are afraid of the Beetle and will run away; Red Bokoblins (Archer) with Bows will shoot it at first sight.
The Red Bokoblins in Skyward Sword appear to be somewhat more intelligent and sociable than their past incarnations, even establishing small Monster Strongholds while conflicting with the native Mogma throughout Eldin Volcano. They defend these villages with the aid of lookout towers and large boulders, which they can roll downhill to hinder Link.
Multiple new variations of Red Bokoblin make an appearance in Skyward Sword, such as Technoblins and Cursed Bokoblins. Technoblins are found in Lanayru Desert, and like many other Enemies in the area, harness Electricity to attack. Cursed Bokoblins are zombies, and can only be found in the depths of the Ancient Cistern and the room in the Sky Keep that represents the former Dungeon. While these Red Bokoblins do not wield Weapons, they are extremely resilient and can withstand much more damage than their living counterparts. Later in the game, Blue Bokoblins replace ordinary Red Bokoblins as a more durable enemy, taking more hits to defeat. The Blue Bokoblin also has a new tactic of attack, similar to Link's Jump Slash. Green Bokoblins are the Dungeon and cave variant of Red Bokoblins, wearing a skull helmet and wielding a stone club. Their skin slowly began to turn into a shade of green due to their sun-deficient lifestyle.
After the "Song of the Hero" quest is completed, most of the various types of Red Bokoblins and Moblins disappear from the overworld completely, leaving Eldin Volcano and Faron Woods devoid of their presence, most likely leaving the woodlands due to the massive flooding caused by Faron, the Faron. During the Horde Battle, all varieties of Red Bokoblins either have significantly increased skills or numbers, even wielding Bombs. However, Ornamental Skulls and Golden Skulls will not appear after Link defeats a Red Bokoblin during the Horde Battle.
According to Fi, they are obsessed with their ideal of fashion, particularly their unusual leopard-print underwear, which can be seen best if Link performs a Fatal Blow on one. This is likely a reference to an Oni's tendency to wear tiger-print loincloths in Japanese folklore.


=== Breath of the Wild ===

Bokoblins appear as common Enemies in Breath of the Wild, often encountered in primitive Monster Strongholds. They can be found resting inside their camps at night and hunting Boars during the day. Monster Strongholds are often guarded by Bokoblins on small watchtowers. If one of these Bokoblins spots Link, they will sound their horn, alerting the other Enemies to Link's presence. There are many varieties of Bokoblins, including the standard red Bokoblin, Blue Bokoblins, Black Bokoblins, Silver Bokoblins, and in Master Mode, Golden Bokoblins. Bokoblins often carry weapons of the Bokoblin Gear equipment archetype, such as the Boko Clubs, Boko Bats, Boko Spears and Boko Bows. Stronger Bokoblins are often equipped with Spiked and Dragonbone versions of this gear, alongside Soldier's Broadswords, Knight's Broadswords and Royal Broadswords at higher tiers. Bokoblins that lack Weapons will either swipe at Link if he is nearby or dig up rocks to throw at him in lieu of any objects in the vicinity. If there are any large rocks, Barrels, or Bomb Barrels, Bokoblins will attempt to pick them up and hurl them at Link. When equipped with a wooden melee Weapon while near a source of fire, they will ignite their Weapon to burn Link with it. At night, Bokoblins will sleep on the ground face-up as bubbles rise from their nostrils. When defeated, Bokoblins may drop Bokoblin Fangs, Bokoblin Horns, and Bokoblin Guts.
Bokoblins will occasionally be found riding Horses. If dismounted by an attack, they will attempt to climb back on their mount. Bokoblins in the Gerudo Highlands may instead ride Honeyvore Bears and Grizzlemaw Bears.       
Sometimes, Bokoblins can be seen attacking travelers. Some travelers may also be knocked out by a Bokoblin. If Link helps to defeat the Bokoblin(s), they may grant Link a reward. However, some travelers who are knocked out may be Yiga Clan members.
The skeletal remains of Bokoblins, known as Stalkoblins, will rise out of the ground during the night. They behave similarly to living Bokoblins, while also possessing undead qualities. They may be found riding Stalhorses in lieu of living steeds.


=== Sequel to Breath of the Wild ===

Bokoblins appear as Enemies in the Sequel to Breath of the Wild. They resemble their Breath of the Wild counterparts, but with longer Horns.


== Other Appearances ==


=== Cadence of Hyrule ===


=== Hyrule Warriors ===


=== My Nintendo Picross: Twilight Princess ===


=== Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ===

A Bokoblin appears as a Spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate with its Breath of the Wild Artwork. It attains the ability, Battering Items Power Up, which raises a Fighters attack when using a battering item such as an Ore Club.


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		


== See Also ==
Black Bokoblin
Blue Bokoblin
Bomb Bokoblin
Cursed Bokoblin
Golden Bokoblin
Green Bokoblin
Moblin
Silver Bokoblin
Technoblin


== References ==