Not to be confused with Boldon, another character from Breath of the Wild.

Bolson is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Bolson is the president of Bolson Construction, a company that only hires people whose names end in "-son." If Link asks Bolson who he is, he will recite Bolson Construction's signature theme and dance, only to be disappointed by the realization that Link doesn't recognize it.
Bolson initially appears behind the vacant house in Hateno Village, where he is working with Hudson and Karson to demolish it. Should Link comment that the work sounds boring, Bolson realizes that someone Link's age would not understand. If Link offers to buy the House instead, Bolson will explain to him that the cost of the operation is 50,000 Rupees, which Link would need to pay for in order to stop the demolition. Whether Link agrees to the price or not, Bolson will sympathize with him and decide to lower the price. He offers a revised deal to Link for the house in exchange for 3,000 Rupees and 30 bundles of Wood. Afterwards, he orders his crew to cease demolition as they wait under a Tree nearby for Link to pay for the House. This initiates the Side Quest "Hylian Homeowner", tasking Link with the responsibility of fulfilling his side of the bargain in exchange for the House.
If Link tells Bolson that he cannot afford the cost, Bolson will become angry and lecture to him about the hardships of life. However, if Link presents the 30 bundles of Wood to Bolson, he will accept the offer and conclude that Link is serious about the offer. If Link provides the 3,000 Rupees, Bolson will offer a Weapon Mount as a housewarming gift. Bolson then tells Link to speak to Hudson before he leaves to carry out a business expansion in Akkala.
After Hudson leaves to establish Tarrey Town, Bolson will offer to furnish Link's House for 100 Rupees per refurbishment. Link can request various additions to his House, such as Weapon Mounts, Bow Mount, and Shield Mount, as well as a Bed, lighting and a front door. Link can also request that Bolson decorates the property surrounding his House, adding a Sign with Link's name, a flower bed and Trees.
Once Link has fully decorated his property, Bolson will call him a "housing monster" and leave additional furniture inside Link's House before taking a break. If spoken to again, Bolson will declare the House to be perfect and bring Link's attention to Hudson once more, wondering how the Bolson Construction expansion is coming along.
Starting at 9:05 PM each night, Bolson and Karson will cross the bridge over Firly Pond and sleep inside one of the pre-constructed homes. There, he will recite Bolson Construction's theme in his sleep.


== Trivia ==
Bolson's profession, demeanor, and attire are an allusion to the Carpenters in the Japanese version of Ocarina of Time. In it, the Carpenters would aimlessly prance around Kakariko Village and notably employ characteristically feminine speech. Additionally, one of the Carpenters refers to Link as a cute boy. These are stereotypical traits of gay men in Japanese media that weren't properly adapted for the English versions. In the English versions of Breath of the Wild however, Bolson's stereotypical characteristics were retained. Bolson's tiger-striped collar, leg wrappings, and blue jacket are also likely a reference to the Master Craftsman from Ocarina of Time.
If Link speaks to Bolson while not wearing any Armor that covers his torso, Bolson will become excited and call Link "perky".


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Bolson Construction
"Hylian Homeowner"


== References ==