Botrick is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Botrick is a Hylian traveler who patrols the area surrounding the Outskirt Stable. He is equipped with a Traveler's Sword and a Wooden Shield. He is a self-described watchman who protects the southwestern corner of Hyrule Field from monsters.
Botrick travels along the road that passes by the Outskirt Stable. Depending on where he is spoken to along the road, he will offer various kinds of advice and insight to Link. At the Outskirt Stable, Botrick will point out Hyrule Castle, informing Link that powerful weaponry can be found there, though the danger of retrieving them is too high. At night, Botrick will go inside the Stable to rest. Inside the Stable, Botrick will share a rumor about the Lord of the Mountain that appears on Satori Mountain.
While traveling south from the Stable, Botrick will talk about the Coliseum Ruins and mention how dangerous they are due to large amount of monsters in the Ruins. At the fork in the road, Botrick will head west towards the Digdogg Suspension Bridge. As he approaches the ruins of some wooden buildings, he will stop and watch for monsters. He will also warn Link that the desert to the southwest is plagued by monsters, counseling him to properly equip himself. When he begins his return to the Stable, Botrick will share the history of the Coliseum Ruins with Link, stating that it was once used for people to engage in combat. He also muses that the Ruins still serve that purpose, though only for combat with deadly monsters.
After traveling south, Botrick will take the road north. As he passes the Stable, he will mention that the north side is relatively safe but that he is determined to patrol them anyway. Once Botrick reaches the crest of the knoll where the road leads, he informs Link that the road continues into the Tabantha Frontier where Rito Village can be found. He also warns Link that Guardians patrol the road along the way and suggests approaching Rito Village from the east instead. Here, Botrick will stop and look towards Satori Mountain, attempting to catch a glimpse of the Lord of the Mountain's presence. While watching for the Lord of the Mountain, Botrick will inform Link that when it appears, a migration of various Creatures will occur as a result of its presence. Afterwards, Botrick will return to the Outskirt Stable. Upon returning, Botrick will mention that the sudden rise of the Sheikah Towers seemingly corresponds with an increase in the monster population, and that Link must equip himself properly in order to account for this change.
If Botrick is attacked by monsters, he will stand his ground and attempt to fight them. If he is knocked unconscious by a monster, he will remain unconscious until the threat has passed. Afterwards, he will begrudge the fact that Link did not assist him in time. If Botrick is saved by Link, he will sheathe his Sword and return to his patrol. If Link speaks to him after saving him, he will thank Link for his help and offer to repay him with Food. If Botrick is saved a second time, he will be embarrassed to have needed Link's help and offers more Food as a bribe. Upon being rescued a third time, Botrick will express his disbelief and either resolve to repay Link in kind or that even watchmen require their own protection. Though none appear along the road that he travels, if a Guardian approaches Botrick, he will frantically warn Link to distance himself from it, claiming that neither of them have a chance against it.
Whenever he is spoken to, Botrick will offer to sell gear to Link for his adventure. Though he only carries Arrows, they can be purchased from Botrick at a cheaper rate than from Beedle. If Link attempts to purchase something from Botrick without the necessary funds, Botrick will tell him to stop shopping. Additionally, if Link attempts to buy something without the available Inventory space, Botrick will offer to buy from Link instead. If Link attempts to sell Armor that he is currently wearing, Botrick will call the situation weird and refuse. During Rain, he will offer a special selection of Arrows and offer some at a discounted price to reward Link's determination.
If Link speaks to Botrick while he is resting, he will comment on the fact that Link smells like a traveler. If Botrick is resting while it begins to Rain, he will comment about how Rain inhibits a traveler's abilities and cautions Link to wait it out. Botrick will also make various comments under certain conditions. He will passively announce when he returns to his work, and recite his duties when approached. He will comment when sunset approaches, and begrudge having to patrol at night. He will also shout and run for cover when it begins to Rain. At 9:00 PM, the Lantern on Botrick's backpack will turn on.


==== Wares and Pricing ====


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==