Branli is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Branli is a Hylian who wears a Snowquill Tunic and Snowquill Trousers. He can be found at the top of Ridgeland Tower, which he's been stuck on since it rose from the ground. He runs the Bird-Man Research Study Mini-Game.
Branli is a researcher dedicated to discovering the flying capabilities of the Rito. According to him, their flight is seemingly inexplicable, due to their heavy weight and relatively short wingspan. Now that he's trapped on top of the Tower, he realizes it gives him the perfect vantage point to observe the Rito.
When Branli realizes that Link is also on the Sheikah Tower, he assumes that Link is stuck as well and can't get down without hurting himself. After learning that Link can glide down, he is excited as he thinks this could help his research. Through his research, he wants to one day himself be a bird, capable of flight.
Branli asks Link to participate in a study to see how far he can glide, agreeing to compensate him based on how far he flies. However, he charges Link a liability fee of 20 Rupees in the event of any accidents. If Link agrees, Branli asks him to keep several things in mind while he glides.
Based on the distance Link flies, Branli will have different reactions. If he flies less than 450 meters, Branli will be upset and refuse to give Link a reward. He encourages Link to think of himself as a Rito, free from gravity. If Link glides between 450 and 600 meters, Branli considers it a small step towards his goal. He'll initally offer 21 Rupees as a reward, though he relents and gives Link a Purple Rupee. Should Link make it more than 600 meters, Branli notes that while he didn't flap his arms, his methods were still effective. As a reward, he gives Link a Silver Rupee.
If Link returns to Branli at any point after first participating in his research study, he'll refer to him as his research assistant.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Ridgeland Tower
Bird-Man Research Study


== References ==