Brigo is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Brigo is a Hylian who is found patrolling Proxim Bridge in West Necluda to protect it from monsters, as the bridge is an important route. He wields a Traveler's Spear.
Despite being used to bad omens, Brigo feels as though they're getting worse. When he notices Link, Brigo asks if they have met before. Brigo says it does not matter who Link is because he is tired of talking to himself, stating that Link has come at a good time. He continues by asking Link if he has seen the Towers that have popped out of the ground all over the place.
Since the long deserted Ancient Shrines have also started glowing, Brigo believes the end is here. Because of these events, the man is keeping his eye on "that thing", referring to the nearby Decayed Guardian, in case it starts moving. Brigo describes the broken down Guardian as being shaped like an overturned urn.
Closer to Hyrule Castle, a Guardian Stalker had chased down Brigo and shot blue beams of light to kill him, but he managed to escape into the nearby woods. Brigo asks Link if he thinks his lightning fast reflexes saved him. However, he laughs off the comment and says he just got lucky. Since Guardians are said to still wander around Hyrule Castle, Brigo tells Link to be careful.
If Link asks for directions to Kakariko Village, Brigo points to Dueling Peaks and says that on the other side there is a stable where he can ask for further directions. Brigo exclaims in surprise if asked for directions to Hyrule Castle, stating that no matter how many lives Link has it is not enough to face the many Guardians there. Despite this he points Link in the right direction, although he believes it would be better to view the Castle from Proxim Bridge. Brigo is confused when Link asks for directions to the abandoned Great Plateau, which is surrounded by a high cliff. Brigo points in the Great Plateau's direction and tells Link to be careful of monsters.
Should Link go to climb or jump off the side of the bridge, Brigo will stop him and tell the hero to think about what he is doing. He says Link will not change the world by jumping carelessly to his doom. It would only cause Brigo himself shock at seeing such a thing. Brigo ends the conversation by telling Link he is fine and not to be careless, as there are too many enjoyable things in the world to gamble with his life. If spoken to after this, Brigo tells Link he almost gave him a heart attack and not to do something like that again, and offers to chat with him for a while.


== Trivia ==
Brigo may be based on, and named for, Kevin Briggs; the now-retired California Highway Patrol officer famous for convincing hundreds of people to not jump from the Golden Gate Bridge. 


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Proxim Bridge


== References ==