Brokka is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Brokka travels between Dueling Peaks Stable and Kakariko Village, carrying a Hunter's Shield and a Traveler's Sword. When she reaches Kakariko Village, Brokka will rest at the Shuteye Inn before continuing her journey. At Dueling Peaks Stable, she sits at the table inside before heading out.
Brokka is very passionate about Gemstones, often singing Gem-themed lyrics while walking. She wonders if she should think about things that can help others, informing Link that placing a Bird Egg in a Hot Spring will make a Hard-Boiled Egg. During her travels, Brokka also has a tendency to zone out. Though she considers owning something as beautiful as a Gem important, she also highly values money. In general, she enjoys things that sparkle, but she loves Gems and money in particular.
When it's raining, Brokka may not feel like talking. She may also inform Link that Bomb Arrows won't ignite in such weather. However, Brokka then asks about the look on Link's face, stating she's allowed to talk about things aside from Ore.
If spoken to, Brokka will give Link advice on collecting Gems from the Ore Deposits near Dueling Peaks. According to her, the mountains are rich in Ore, and she dreams about selling the Gems she mines from there. She also notes that Bombs can be used to break Ore Deposits, but asks that Link not set any off near her. Despite this, Brokka prefers using Hammers for mining over Bombs.
Brokka may also notice his pouch, reminding him to sell any Ore he has since it's worth a lot. In particular, she suggests selling Rubies and Sapphires, due to their high value. She believes that the amount of Rupees that Gems sell for is a great motivator. According to Brokka, the value of a Gem comes from its beauty, and she herself has sold some beautiful Gems.
In addition, Brokka will give Link directions if she thinks he looks lost, and suggests using his Map. She laments the fact that there isn't a Map for life. She'll also direct him to Kakariko Village, saying that since she sells Ore there, she knows it well.
When Link saves Brokka from monsters, she will be grateful for his help. She may comment on his strength, swearing to never forget that he saved her. She'll give him Rupees, meals, or Elixirs as a reward.


== Nomenclature ==
Brokka is named after Broccoli.


== See Also ==
Hylian
Dueling Peaks Stable
Kakariko Village
Bugut


== References ==