Bugut is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Bugut is a traveling merchant who appears on the path between Kakariko Village and the Dueling Peaks Stable. At Kakariko Village, he'll sit inside Shuteye Inn to rest before he leaves. When he reaches Dueling Peaks Stable, he will sit at the table inside for a moment.
When spoken to, Bugut frequently makes reference to his old age. In his youth, he was a mountain-climber, particularly on the Dueling Peaks, where he used the Stable as a base. He occasionaly remarks that climbing is difficult in the rain.
Bugut enjoys mornings and bright days. When he travels during the night, he'll comment that he's awake past his bedtime. He also shows an interest in the Great Fairy Fountain near Kakariko Village, recommending Link prepare before he investigates it.
Claree, the owner of Enchanted, is the object of Bugut's affections, but he considers her to be out of his league. He also wants to buy a Stealth Chest Guard from her, as he hears it makes it harder for monsters to find you. Bugut thinks he's too old for Claree's, and he doesn't have enough Rupees to afford the Stealth Chest Guard.
Bugut will offer advice at various points on his journey. At the intersection of the road between Kakariko Bridge and Fort Hateno, he offers directions to Hateno Village.
While in direct proximity to the Dueling Peaks Stable, Bugut remarks upon the look in Link's eyes, claiming that he knows that Link won't stay there for long due to the call for adventure. While resting inside, he talks about how Kakariko Village is a good shopping destination due to its food and fashion.
When Link saves Bugut from enemies, he will be grateful. He may also comment that Link is tough despite his youth. He'll give him meals as a reward.
Bugut will also advertise his wares and their ability to boost Link's Stamina. He suggests having stamina-boosting Food on hand when climbing and running. Everything he sells are Items that he found on his travels, and he sells specialty Items when it's raining. He also agrees to buy from Link. When Link agrees to buy from him, he'll guarantee that his ingredients will be able to boost his vigor. He thanks Link for every purchase he makes.


=== Wares and Pricing ===


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Dueling Peaks Stable
Kakariko Village
Brokka


== References ==