Buliara is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Buliara is the Gerudo captain of the guard who accompanies Lady Riju, Chief of the Gerudo. She's known as the best spear master in Gerudo Town. Despite this, she carries a Golden Claymore.
Riju notes in her diary that Buliara was the one who informed her of her mother's passing and her new role as Chief. When Riju left Gerudo Town to investigate Divine Beast Vah Naboris, Buliara was the one who rescued her when she got too close. Since then, she hasn't left Riju's side, blaming herself for the theft of the Thunder Helm.
Link first meets Buliara at the start of the "Divine Beast Vah Naboris" Main Quest when he first enters the Gerudo Town palace, disguised as a woman. Buliara will stop Link when he approaches Riju on her throne and demands him to explain his business here. After Riju speaks to Link for some time, she will mention to Buliara that she recalls her mother speaking of a fallen swordsman that was placed into a deep sleep by the Princess of Hyrule when the Calamity happened. She also recalls that the swordsman's name was Link, hesitantly wondering if the Link before her is that same swordsman.
If Link is not carrying the legendary sword, Buliara will point out that Link is not carrying the sword from those same legends. After more conversation, Buliara suddenly notices that Link is actually a man. Riju states that it is a great crime for a man to enter Gerudo Town, but she dismisses this due to Link's status a link. Riju soon reasons that if Link truly is a Champion, then he may be able to enter Divine Beast Vah Naboris and calm its anger.
Buliara urges Riju not to trust a stranger with such an important task, suggesting that he prove himself worthy by recovering the stolen Thunder Helm. Riju agrees with this suggestion and Buliara assures her that recovering the stolen Thunder Helm should be an easy task for Link if he is truly a Champion. Buliara tells Link that Captain Teake in the barracks nearby can tell him about the thieves who stole the Thunder Helm.
If Link speaks to Buliara again, she asks him what is wrong and says that if he is truly the Champion of legend, the task should be simple. She then reiterates that he should see Captain Teake to learn more about the thieves and comments that this is his chance to show them what he is capable of.
When Link returns with the Thunder Helm, Buliara will direct him to Riju, saying she's on the second floor. She notes the special permission he's received and reminds him to be on his best behavior. During this time, Riju notes in her diary how Buliara trusts in Link's abilities and doesn't mind that he's a man, which is a surprise to her.
After Link calms Naboris and speaks to Buliara, she tells him that they are indebted to him. She also tells Link that Gerudo Town is his ally now, but warns him that he should still hide that he is a man.
When The Champions' Ballad DLC Pack is active, Link can ask Buliara about the Ancient Orb guarded by the Gerudo. Though she's shocked he knows about it, Buliara admits that it's been stolen by the Yiga Clan. She'll also share rumors that the Yiga have begun regrouping at the Yiga Clan Hideout.
Link can recreate the Scimitar of the Seven and the Daybreaker if they are broken by speaking to Buliara. She'll make a new Scimitar of the Seven if Link can supply her with one Diamond, five pieces of Flint, and a Gerudo Scimitar. To make a new Daybreaker, Buliara requires one Diamond, five pieces of Flint, and a Gerudo Shield.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Gerudo
Gerudo Town
Riju


== References ==