Cado is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Cado is a member of the Sheikah Tribe who lives in Kakariko Village with his beloved Cuccos. He's separated from his ex-wife, Rola, but both remain in the Village. He is a talented Sheikah archer who normally wears his Phrenic Bow on his back in addition to the Eightfold Blade he wears on his hip.
In the Journal of Various Worries, Cado recounts the end of his relationship with Rola. She asked him to choose between herself and his Cuccos, and he chose the Cuccos.
When Link first approaches Impa's House in Kakariko Village, Cado and his fellow guard Dorian will take a defensive stance and demand he identify himself. However, he then notices the Sheikah Slate on Link's belt and realizes who the young hero must be. The two relax their stances and Dorian apologizes, inviting the young hero inside to see Impa. Cado and Dorian will step aside to allow Link passage and Cado will again apologize.
Cado admits they are on guard due to the Yiga Clan. Link can ask about them to learn the history of both the Sheikah and Yiga. Cado will describe how their technology was once used against Calamity Ganon, but then was considered too dangerous. With their people exiled, Cado explains that while some were able to move on, others were embittered and formed the Yiga Clan. He declares that he and Dorian are stationed to protect Impa against a possible attack from them. Cado asks that Link take caution in his travels as the Yiga are likely to wish him harm. He reminds the hero not to underestimate them as an opponent.
Once Link has had his first meeting with Impa, Cado and Dorian will begin to take shifts guarding her home. At noon, Cado will head home to his Cuccos, whom he refers to very affectionately. However, Cado is utterly shocked and horrified to find that most of the birds have flown away. He's so dismayed by their absence that he breaks down into tears, explaining that his wife has left him and the Cuccos are all he has. Cado has difficulty holding himself together, startling Link with his sudden sobbing.
Link can try to reassure him that they will return, but he replies that he has also been waiting for his wife to return as well. Speaking to him again has him despairing over the idea that his Cuccos have decided to leave him the way his wife did. Cado breaks down into sobs again, but Link can volunteer to search for them to cheer him up, and to begin the Side Quest, "Flown the Coop". 
Once the Quest is completed, Cado will continue to watch over his Cuccos until late into the night. He admits that while he is nervous about leaving them alone, he knows he needs his sleep. Even is his sleep, Cado mutters to his Cuccos, begging them not to leave.
During the Shrine Quest "The Stolen Heirloom", Cado is angry that the Sheikah Heirloom was stolen and wonders how the thief made it past himself and Dorian. He reveals that the only let through known villagers, as they're able to come and go as they please. The only people he remembers visiting around the time of the theft are Lasli and Mellie.
Any other time Link comes by to see him, Cado is okay with his Cuccos hopping the fence and exploring, mentioning that they can be used to fly. Link can ask him about the fact and Cado will proudly declare that it is true. He happily describes the feeling of flying with a Cucco.


== Nomenclature ==
Cado's name is derived from Avocado.


== See Also ==
Sheikah
Kakariko Village
Rola
"Flown the Coop"


== References ==