Cambo is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Cambo is a Hylian traveling merchant who travels between Wetland Stable and Kakariko Village with his Donkey. He does this to sell his wares and purchase products at Kakariko Village to sell before traveling back to Wetland Stable. At Kakariko Village, he rests under the tree at the Village's western entrance. When he reaches Wetland Stable, he sits under a tree behind the Stable. He carries a Hunter's Shield and a Traveler's Sword
Cambo has a habit of launching into explanations that, when finished, he realizes Link never asked for in the first place. He may also offer Link directions to Kakariko Village and Riverside Stable. When it's late in the day, he plans on stopping at Wetland Stable for dinner and a couple of Elixirs.
Occasionally, Cambo speaks directly to his Donkey. The story as to how the two of them met is long, but since Cambo can't do it justice, he doesn't share it. When they have a potential customer, he'll calm it down or ask it to wait for him. He believes it understands him, and he reminds it of how clever it is. He agrees to give it a "vegetal delight". Despite all the Horses that pass him, he prefers his Donkey due to its strength and stuborn nature.
Cambo gives Link tips for Cooking. He suggests thoroughly thoroughly Cooking Food before eating to avoid food poisoning. In addition, he warns  Link against putting any Insects in his Food. However, he acknowledges that Insects and Monster Parts must be used when making Elixirs.
Cambo is apologetic to his Donkey after being saved from enemies, as he abandoned it in his fear. He also delights in the destruction of monsters. He'll give Link meals and Raw Meats as a reward.
When Link approaches Cambo, he notices him eying his donkey's packs and asks if he wants to see his merchandise. He also allows Link to sell to him, and he'll thank him for his business after every purchase. If Link leaves, Cambo suggests the possibility of doing business later. With his whole stock bought, he thanks Link for being an enthusiastic customer. During rainy weather, he sells higher quality Meats and Mushrooms.


=== Wares and Pricing ===


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Kakariko Village
Wetland Stable
Rik


== References ==