Celessa is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Celessa is a Hylian adventurer, and she can be found between Dueling Peaks Stable and Hateno Village. At Dueling Peaks Stable, she sits at the foot of one of the beds. She carries an Emblazoned Shield on her back, in addition to a Traveler's Sword.
Previously, Celessa has met Impa, calling her a wonderful woman and suggesting Link meet her. She praises her lovely personality, having learned history from her.
Celessa is on a pilgrimage to the Spring of Wisdom on Mount Lanayru. It's the final location on her journey. This pilgrimage is her attempt to recreate Princess Zelda's steps. She wonders what she might have found at the Spring. However, she seems surprised by the fact she has made it this far safely, and she believes she is moving slower than Zelda did.
Celessa asks Link if he has heard of Princess Zelda before, revealing that she is not just a fairy tale and wa once a real person.  The reason for Celessa's pilgrimage is her love and respect for Princess Zelda. When she does arrive at the Spring of Wisdom, she hopes to feel Zelda's presence. According to her, the princesses of Hyrule Kingdom have visited it for generations.
At Fort Hateno, Celessa will explain to Link that it was built to stop the Guardians. She describes an ancient battle once took place there, referring to the events of the Great Calamity. She laments the tragic battle where many Hyrulean Soldiers lost their lives protecting Hateno Village from the onslaught of Guardian Stalkers, wishing to honor their sacrifice. She hopes that the souls of those who lost their lives have found peace.
During her stop at Hateno Village, she pays a visit to the East Wind. She remarks that, while Hateno escaped the brunt of the Calamity, its peace feels precarious. As a fellow traveler, she asks Link if he can feel it as well.
When Celessa is caught in the rain, she wonders if it's also raining at Hyrule Castle. She also wishes for the spirit of King Rhoam to be at peace.
As she travels at night, Celessa warns monsters to stay away. If Link saves Celessa, she apologizes to him for having to look out for her. She will thank him and give him meals and Rupees as a reward.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Dueling Peaks Stable
Hateno Village
Agus
Joute
Teli
Toma


== References ==