Chabi is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Chabi is a Hylian traveler who can be found throughout Hyrule Kingdom. She carries a Hunter's Shield and a Traveler's Sword. Link can save her from Bokoblins that regularly attack her as she camps. She always gives Monster Extract as a reward.
The first time Link saves her, Chabi asks him how much he knows about Kilton and the Fang and Bone. She gives Link Monster Extract and explains that it's made by Kilton. It makes food taste better, and despite being made of monsters, Chabi considers it to be good. She also shares rumors about Kilton, such as the fact that he's obsessed with monsters and does research with them.
Chabi wants to meet Kilton to see if the stories are true, but he's difficult to track down. She's heard from a trusted source that he's often found at a skull-shaped lake in Akkala. According to her, Kilton is more interested in researching monsters than any normal person.
After Link has visited the Fang and Bone for the first time, Chabi notes that Kilton's been spotted all over Hyrule now, not just in Akkala. She shares stories of his shop popping up out of nowhere when night falls. Because of this, she's beginning to doubt whether she wants to meet him.
If Link saves Chabi again, she might insist that she didn't need his help. However, she might thank him for making the situation simpler. She's embarrassed she had to have Link save her again. Though she hasn't gotten anywhere in her search for Kilton, she hasn't given up. She swears to find him someday.
Chabi camps at the following locations:

The fork in the road on the West Hyrule Plains near Ludfo's Bog. Here, she's attacked by a Blue Bokoblin.
The ruins of a house south of Serenne Stable on Rowan Plain. She's found fighting a Black Bokoblin.
The road east of the Akkala Parade Ground Ruins, where she fights a Blue Bokoblin.
In the Shadow Pass forest south of the Shadow Hamlet Ruins. She's attacked by a Blue Bokoblin at this location.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Fang and Bone


== References ==