Chio is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Chio is a Korok that can be found underneath the The Great Deku Tree in the Korok Forest. When Link first speaks to him, Chio recognizes him as the hero. He explains to Link that the mushroom on his head suddenly sprouted that day, so he had expected something to happen.
Chio reveals that the Koroks all prepared some trials for Link. If Link hasn't yet pulled out the Master Sword, Chio says the trials will help him do so. However, if Link already has the Master Sword, Chio is unsure whether he'll need them. He goes on to tell Link that he designed an extra-tough trial himself, as the elder of Korok Forest. He asks Link if he's ready to test his mettle, and accepting his challenge initiates the Side Quest "The Korok Trials".
When Link asks, Chio informs him on what the Korok Trials are before he gets started. He explains that the goal is to visit all of the Ancient Shrines in the Korok Forest to be considered a grown-up. According to him, it is a ceremony that every Korok must undertake, based on Link's own trials. Chio and Hestu have both participated.
The first trial that Chio shares is the "Trial of Second Sight", which is found in the southwest of Korok Forest. He then shares the location of the second trial, "The Lost Pilgrimage", in the northwest Forest. Finally, he tells Link the third trial, "The Test of Wood" in the eastern Forest. He reiterates that overcoming the Korok Trials means one can overcome anything. The Koroks have also prepared prizes for Link when he completes the Trials.
Once Link completes all of the Trials, Chio will be impressed. Recognizing that Link wants a reward, Chio has no choice but to give Link his most treasured item, three Big Hearty Truffles. He suggests eating a dish made with Big Hearty Truffles as it will soothe all of his pain. This completes the Side Quest.
Chio feels very privileged to have witnessed Link pulling out the Master Sword. Without anymore Trials for Link, he encourages Link to go and save Hyrule Kingdom. The Koroks will be cheering for him from the Forests.


== Trivia ==
Aside from Hestu, Chio is the only Korok appearing in Breath of the Wild to have an entirely new character design, rather than one based on a Korok from The Wind Waker. He is also the only Korok, aside from Hestu, to have a unique character design not shared with any other Korok in the game.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Korok
Korok Forest
"The Korok Trials"


== References ==