Dabi is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Dabi is a Hylian who owns the Tabantha Bridge Stable, which is on the Hyrule Ridge side of the Tabantha Great Bridge. When spoken to at the front of the stable, he'll welcome Link and ask if he wants to register or take out a Horse. When Link takes a Horse out, Dabi thanks him for choosing their Stable.
If Tabantha Bridge Stable is the first Stable Link has visited, Dabi will welcome him and introduce him to the Stable. Since he does not recognize Link, he asks if he knows how the Stable system works. If Link says he doesn't, Dabi explains that he can board Horses and summon them to any Stable. He also tells Link that he can tame a wild Horse and register it to make it his companion. While each person is limited to five Horses, they can be swapped in and out.
If Link asks to register a horse without one present, Dabi will call him a comedian, saying to "quit horsing around" and to find a horse. When Link approaches the Stable with a wild Horse, Dabi asks if he wants to register it or rest for a while. He explains that the Stable charges a registration fee of 20 Rupees. Once the Horse has been registered, he asks if Link wants to board it or take it with him.
When attempting to register a Deer or Bear, Dabi will scold Link and say they only register Horses. Dabi insists that Stalhorses are monsters, and he won't board it in fear of it eating the other Horses. If Link tries to register the Lord of the Mountain, Dabi refuses, believing they'll all by cursed.
Dabi gives Link several tips for taking care of Horses, such as instructions on how to tame a wild horse. He informs Link that Horses instinctively follow the road, which is great for viewing the scenery. He also tells Link that, if he's separated from his horse, whistling will cause it to come running. In addition, Dabi gives instructions as to how to navigate a Horse that's scared of its surroundings and refusing to move.
When Link registers Epona, Dabi starts to ask him to enter a name for his new Horse. Howeverm he recognizes Epona as a Horse of legend, and states that there is probably a law against renaming her. He forces Link to name her Epona,
Inside the stable, he will once again welcome Link and ask if he'll be staying with them. He offers regular beds for 20 Rupees and a soft bed for 40 Rupees. When asked, he explains that it's a special bed offered by the Stable, and anyone who uses it will wake up feeling more energized.
Before Link rests, Dabi tells him to sleep well. When Link wakes up, Dabi wishes him a good morning, day, or evening and hopes he enjoyed his stay.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Tabantha Bridge Stable
Banji
Chork
Ena
Geggle
Kenyo
Sho


== References ==