Dalia is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Dalia is a Gerudo child who lives in Gerudo Town. At night, she sleeps at Lorn's Fruit Stand, which is owned by her mother. According to Lorn, Dalia loves Fruitcake, so she makes it every once in a while.
When Link first enters Gerudo Town, he can find Dalia and the other three children in Gerudo Town speaking to each other as a group as the sun sets. Kalani asks them if they are in love. Makure then responds that she wants to attend Ahsai's class when she grows up and get married. Pearle then comments that Ashai is unmarried and wonders what that means. Lastly, Dalia says that she heard being in love is the sweetest thing in the world, but does not think she can handle something sweeter than berries.
After this, Link can find Dalia in the empty plot near The Noble Canteen. She asks what someone from out of town is doing in a place like this. When Link asks what she's doing, Dalia reveals that she's planning on starting a fruit garden in the plot, though she's keeping it from her mother for now. Once the garden is made, she'll be able to eat as mush fruit as she wants. However, she hasn't decided on what she'll plant, yet. Dalia promises to share what she grows with Link.
After Link has calmed Divine Beast Vah Naboris and started the Side Quest "The Thunder Helm", he will find Dalia crying in the empty plot. Dalia explains that she wanted to plant an orchard in the plot, going so far as to pick up the trash, pull the weeds, and till the ground. Unfortunately, the water from the nearby water trough is unusable due to a flow of trash in it. Without the water, her orchard won't be able to flourish. After she is finished speaking, Link will receive "The Mystery Polluter" Side Quest.
Link finds out that the source of the trash is a Gerudo named Calyban who enjoys eating Hydromelons on the walls of Gerudo Town and throwing the rinds into the waterway. This pollutes the water trough that Dalia needs in order to grow a fruit orchard. Link convinces Calyban to stop by giving her ten Wildberries. Once Calyban receives her Wildberries, though, she feels bad for Dalia, so she helps clean up the trash. 
When Link returns to Dalia, Calyban has already cleaned up her trash and left. Dalia gives Link a Hydromelon that was given to her by "the lady who cleaned it up" as a thank you for caring about her. Dalia says that she also gave her some Wildberries, so Dalia decides that she is going to grow a Wildberry patch there. She tells Link he can come eat the Wildberries anytime he likes and "The Mystery Polluter" Side Quest will be complete.
Link can come back later to find that three Wildberry plants have grown there. According to Dalia, when she planted the first Wildberry, more began to sprout from the ground. Despite her work clearing up the garbage and preparing the garden, she thinks the Wildberry must have been magic. In her sleep, she even talks about eating Wildberries.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Gerudo
Gerudo Town
"The Mystery Polluter"
Lorn


== References ==