Dayto is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Dayto is a traveler who can be found walking from Foothill Stable and through the Maw of Death Mountain before heading back. At Foothill Stable, hit sits at the table inside, where he asserts that he doesn't need to make a choice about whether he goes east or west. He carries a Hunter's Shield and a Traveler's Sword.
Dayto is an indecisive man who cannot decide on what he wants to do. He struggles with whether he should check his map, his method of travel, and whether he can obtain a Fireproof Elixir. He looks back on his past choices occasionally and wonders whether he made the right decisions.
One of Dayto's worries is whether he should traverse Death Mountain. If there are other people up there, though, he believes he could sell to them. He's unsure if he should try to withstand the heat, since he'll end up sweating either way.
Dayto is also unsure of when to end his journey. At the crossroads at the end of the Maw of Death Mountain, he asks himself whether he'll fight the enemies ahead or flee. He also debates whether to continue, quit, or take a nap.
During the night, Dayto struggles with whether or not he should sleep. Even then, he has difficulties choosing a spot to rest.  He can only find respite when it is raining, and he asks not to be bothered during this time.
If Link saves Dayto from monsters encountered along the route, he initially has difficulty believing the danger is over. He's scared of monsters, even describing himself as drenched with sweat after seeing monsters. He will give the hero meals and Rupees as thanks. Along his journey, he encounters the Guardian Stalker by Gero Pond, which he runs from in fear.


== Trivia ==
Dayto's appearance is based on that of American actor and comedian Robin Williams (1951-2014); Williams was known for his love of the series, going as far as to name his daughter Zelda. The two appeared in commercials for Ocarina of Time 3D in 2011.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Foothill Stable
Maw of Death Mountain
Kairo


== References ==