Dmitri is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Dmitri is the owner of the South Akkala Stable. When spoken to at the front of the stable, he'll welcome Link and ask if he wants to register or take out a Horse. When Link takes a Horse out, Dmitri thanks him for choosing their Stable.
If South Akkala Stable is the first Stable Link has visited, Dmitri will welcome him and introduce him to the Stable. Since he does not recognize Link, he asks if he knows how the Stable system works. If Link says he doesn't, Dmitri explains that he can board Horses and summon them to any Stable. He also tells Link that he can tame a wild Horse and register it to make it his companion. While each person is limited to five Horses, they can be swapped in and out.
If Link asks to register a horse without one present, Dmitri will call him a comedian, saying to "quit horsing around" and to find a horse. When Link approaches the Stable with a wild Horse, Dmitri asks if he wants to register it or rest for a while. He explains that the Stable charges a registration fee of 20 Rupees. Once the Horse has been registered, he asks if Link wants to board it or take it with him.
When attempting to register a Deer or Bear, Dmitri will scold Link and say they only register Horses. Dmitri insists that Stalhorses are monsters, and he won't board it in fear of it eating the other Horses. If Link tries to register the Lord of the Mountain, Dmitri refuses, believing they'll all by cursed.
Dmitri gives Link several tips for taking care of Horses, such as instructions on how to tame a wild horse. He informs Link that Horses instinctively follow the road, which is great for viewing the scenery. He also tells Link that, if he's separated from his horse, whistling will cause it to come running. In addition, Dmitri gives instructions as to how to navigate a Horse that's scared of its surroundings and refusing to move.
When Link registers Epona, Dmitri starts to ask him to enter a name for his new Horse. Howeverm he recognizes Epona as a Horse of legend, and states that there is probably a law against renaming her. He forces Link to name her Epona,
Inside the stable, he will once again welcome Link and ask if he'll be staying with them. He offers regular beds for 20 Rupees and a soft bed for 40 Rupees. When asked, he explains that it's a special bed offered by the Stable, and anyone who uses it will wake up feeling more energized.
Before Link rests, Dmitri tells him to sleep well. When Link wakes up, Dmitri wishes him a good morning, day, or evening and hopes he enjoyed his stay.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
South Akkala Stable
Gleema
Jana
Kaifa
Tenne


== References ==