Domidak is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Domidak can be found at the Dueling Peaks Stable with his twin brother, Prissen. Domidak considers himself a premiere treasure hunter, and is often praised for his skills by his younger brother.
When Link approaches them, he will find that the two of them are busy discussing a bandit by the name of Misko and the location of their supposed treasure. However, Domidak will quiet his brother when he notices Link standing there. As Prissen explains who they are, Domidak immediately chides him for giving out information. Domidak is quick to dismiss Link and any attempt at conversation. Should Link choose to drop the subject, Domidak will state that Misko's treasure is for seasoned treasure hunters and promptly rules Link out of the competition. He then mutters to himself that he is grateful for the lack of rivals.
If Link is persistent, Domidak will give up his attempts to pass off Prissen's slip as rambling. When Prissen suggests telling Link the riddle they found to get him to leave, Domidak agrees. Domidak explains that they are seeking the treasure of Misko, a legendary bandit. However, Domidak refuses to tell more without proper compensation and requires 100 Rupees, though he claims the price for the exclusive information is a steal. If Link agrees, but does not have enough Rupees, Domidak will scoff and turn him away.
Once Link agrees to the deal and gives up the Rupees required, Domidak will tell him the riddle they discovered. He explains where he got this information from and claims it is unmistakable. At the end of the conversation, the "Misko, the Great Bandit" Side Quest begins. Link can still talk to the pair to overhear Domidak musing over the riddle. If Link tells them to keep at it Prissen will snap at him, causing Domidak to tell his brother to quiet down and let him think.
Link can let the pair know that he already solved the riddle, but Domidak does not believe him. Prissen declares that Link could never solve the puzzle before his brother and Domidak goes back to mulling the riddle over.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Dueling Peaks Stable
"Misko, the Great Bandit"
Prissen


== References ==