Dorian is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
When Link first approaches Impa's House in Kakariko Village, Dorian and his fellow guard Cado will take a defensive stance and demand he identify himself. However, once they notice the Sheikah Slate in Link's possession, the two relax their stances and apologize. He will explain that Impa informed them about the swordsman and asks that Link head inside to meet with her. Cado and Dorian will step aside to allow Link passage and Dorian reveals that for ages Impa has been waiting for his return. While he wishes to speak to Link as well, he asks that the hero first see the elder.
Dorian implores Link to use the Sheikah Village's resources to his advantage. He also mentions the Ta'loh Naeg Shrine on a hill above his settlement, as well as the Great Fairy Fountain, which he refers to as the location of Kakariko Village's Guardian Spirit. Dorian admits that does not dare to try and contact the Great Fairy himself, but recommends that Link search for her. If Link speaks to him at night, he asks what he's doing up so late and tells him to spend the night at the Shuteye Inn.
Once Link has spoken to Impa, Dorian and Cado will begin to take shifts guarding the elder's home. Cado will return to his post at 11:00 in the evening, allowing Dorian to go home at midnight to his daughters, Koko and Cottla. At home, Dorian will take a seat and remove his umbrella hat. He explains that his wife was murdered by the Yiga Clan. He mourns her death and admits his great displeasure as his inability to protect her. Eventually, Dorian will fall asleep in his chair.
At 8:00 AM, Dorian will wake up and go to tell his daughters stories. However, he admits that those stories are always the same. If Link speaks to the family while they are under the favourite Tree of Dorian' wife, Dorian will introduce his girls. While he loves their time together, he admits that he only ends up repeating stories to them. If Link asks about these stories, Dorian will share one of them. Quietly, he'll admit to Link that he is talking about where the Village's Guardian Spirit is and that he is trying to keep the girls from going there. However, it only seems to work on Koko, as Cottla instead gets excited. At 11:00 AM, the girls run off and Dorian returns to Impa's home.
When the Sheikah Heirloom has been stolen from Paya, Dorian asks Link go and comfort her. According to Paya, Dorian and Cado claim not to have seen anyone aside from the villagers of Kakariko. While the Shrine Quest "The Stolen Heirloom" is active, Dorian wonders who could have stolen the Heirloom, stating he saw nobody suspicious. Link can ask who visited Impa's House, and Dorian will tell him Lasli and Mellie came by.
At 10:00 in the evening, Dorian will make his way to the woods past Ta'loh Naeg Shrine. If Link speaks to him during this time, Dorian is startled by his presence. He struggles to come up with a reason why he's out, but he eventually claims that he was patrolling the village for the thief. However, he decides to return to his post, as leaving Cado alone is dangerous.
During his walk, Dorian wonders how "they" could have done this and states he must do something. In the woods, he comments about how quiet it is, but he hears something as he approaches the Stone Sphere Socket. He decides he must be imagining things, but once he's over the bridge, he demands an unknown entity to show themself.
When Link approaches, Dorian repeats his demand. A Yiga Blademaster appears on the Stone Sphere Socket. Dorian accuses the Yiga of stealing the Sheikah Heirloom, which the Blademaster confirms and notes that it seems special to the village. Dorian questions why they would steal it, but the Blademaster tells him not to play dumb and he knew what he was getting into. He informs Dorian that by leaving, he's forfeited his life. After telling them about the Heirloom, his usefulness has come to an end. However, the Blademaster notices Link nearby, and chooses to attack him first.
After the Yiga Clan thief is defeated, Dorian expresses shock that he was followed. He reveals that he used to be part of the Clan himself before he met his wife and had his daughters. Dorian tried to change his ways and leave the Yiga Clan for the Sheikah Tribe, but the Yiga Clan killed his wife in retaliation. With the lives of his children on the line Dorian  continued to serve as an informant within the Sheikah for the Yiga Clan, including telling them about Link. Filled with grief, Dorian eventually decided to cut ties with the Yiga Clan completely, but the Yiga Clan threatened the lives of Impa and Paya as well.
Link can now use the Heirloom to open the Lakna Rokee Shrine. Dorian offers his apologies and asks that Link keeps what happened a secret for his children's sake.


== Nomenclature ==
Dorian's namesake comes from, and is only one letter off, durian, however he has no connections to the in-game item, the Hearty Durian.


== See Also ==
Sheikah
Kakariko Village
"The Stolen Heirloom"
Cottla
Koko


== References ==