Douma is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Douma is a Hylian who can be found in the Lanayru region of Hyrule Kingdom. She's a self-described peddler and traveling merchant, who goes wherever she feels.
Initially, Douma is found at the fork in the road near the mouth of Zora River in the Lanayru Wetlands. She beckons Link over when she sees him, where she remarks how strange it is to find another Hylian in the area. She introduces herself and says it's nice to meet him.
Douma asks if Link spoke to the Zora nearby and if they asked him to head to Zora's Domain and meet Prince Sidon. If Link says yes to both these questions, Douma reveals that she met Sidon, and the first thing he said to her was "I've been watching you!" and "What's your name?!" Creeped out, she ran away, though she tells Link to visit if he wants to see a freak show. However, she doesn't think he'll go for Link, since he isn't as much of a looker as she is.
After Divine Beast Vah Ruta has been calmed, Douma returns to Zora's Domain. She'll recognize Link if they've spoken before. She explains that, since the rain has stopped, she was able to reach the Domain. Her plan is to buy rare goods from the Coral Reef, and she tells Link not to get in her way. She's also relieved to take a break and enjoy the sights. During the night, she sleeps at the Seabed Inn.
Douma thinks that the statue of Mipha in Zora's Domain is cute. When Link tells her Mipha's name, Douma is annoyed and asks how she was supposed to know. She becomes irritated when Link tells her this more than once.
Douma's work is purchasing Items from the Coral Reef. However, she considers it boring, so she suggests Link doesn't follow her. She enjoys going sightseeing when she takes her breaks.
Within the Coral Reef, Douma remarks that Sasan was planning on stocking up on Hylian Rice. Due to its abundance, however, she doesn't see this as a good purchase. She instead suggests buying Chillfin Trout or Sizzlefin Trouts, since they aren't as common.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Zora River
Zora's Domain


== References ==