Endai is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Endai is a Hylian who travels on his Horse back and forth between Riverside Stable and Wetland Stable. He carries a Emblazoned Shield and a Traveler's Sword. At Wetland Stable, Endai briefly pauses under the tree across the road before leaving. He and his Horse rest under the shelter when they reach Riverside Stable. If it rains during Endai's journey, he may seek refuge under the Tree on the southern side of Eagus Bridge.
At Wetland Stable, Endai tries to decide whether he'll head back south or continue north. Due to the danger presented by heading north, he decides to return to Riverside Stable.
As he travels, Endai will sometimes speak to himself. He thinks about putting Bird Eggs in Hot Springs and how much he likes Dogs. He also reminds himself to shoot Chuchus in the eye and that Fairies can be found by cutting grass.
When Link speaks to Endai, he recognizes him as a courageous adventurer from his look. He reasons that Link's "roguish look" makes him appear as though he'd infiltrate Hyrule Castle. Getting into the Castle is one of many things Endai considers a possibility in life, among catching Insects, swimming, and sleeping. In fact, he encourages Link to do so and find that lost treasures of the Royal Family of Hyrule.
Endai occasionally shares tips with Link. He'll mention that Frogs and snails, which are useful for Elixirs, come out before it rains. He tells Link to avoid Lightning by putting away metal gear during thunderstorms, though he suggests throwing metal Weapons at enemies.
According to Endai, shopkeepers sell their best wares during rain because they get less customers. Climbing during rain also isn't something he recommends, since it makes the rocks slippery.
Endai also has a bit of knowledge on the Yiga Clan. He knows that their leader, Master Kohga, loves Mighty Bananas more than anything.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Riverside Stable
Wetland Stable
Kazul
Spoone


== References ==