Falmark is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Falmark is a Hylian who travels between Rito Stable and Snowfield Stable. He carries a Wooden Shield. At both Stables, he momentarily sits at the tables inside.
At Rito Stable, Falmark will admit that Rito Village is too much for him, since he's afraid of heights. However, this fear doesn't apply to mountains, as he knows he can Shield Surf down.
At Snowfield Stable, Falmark claims he's staying there while he prepares to head up the Hebra Mountains. A former Shield Surfing champion who lives in the Mountains told him not to make light of his journey. When Link seems worried about him, Falmark assures Link of his plan. He offers to share stories from when he was young as Link walks with him. He also asks Link to Shield Surf with him.
Falmark is a Shield Surfer, claiming to be a rather famous one. He takes it upon himself to give Link some tips for Shield Surfing. For example, he informs Link that Shields won't break if he surfs on snow or sand, but they will on any other terrain.
Baumar, another traveler, refers to Falmark. He claims that Falmark saved him in the Hebra Mountains, though he has difficulties remembering his name. Falmark himself may comment on this event, saying that he was around Link's age and Surfing down the Mountain with a kid on his back was tougher than he expected.
Originally, Falmark got into Shield Surfing to impress ladies. Since then, he's become obsessed with it and wants to participate in the competition at Hebra East Summit.
Falmark wants to see the Hebra Great Skeleton on the Hebra North Summit. He claims that Shield Surfers consider seeing the Skeleton to bring happiness. There's a competition he hears is held in Hebra that he also wants to enter.
When he's encountered on the road, he'll ask Link if he's planning to go to the Hebra Mountains. He recommends imagining the feeling of surfing down the hill while climbing up, it makes the journey easier. According to him, the tougher the climb is, the better the ride back down.
Along his journey, Falmark may be attacked by not only enemies, but wolves as well. When this happens, he wishes someone would take care of this and remarks how this ruins his plans. If Link saves him, Falmark may thank him or comment on his strength. He'll give him Enduring Veggie Rice Balls initially, later giving him Rupees.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Rito Stable
Snowfield Stable


== References ==