Finley is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Finley is a Zora from Zora's Domain. She can be found running around the Domain, upset that her mother Kodah will not let her go to the Bank of Wishes to send a letter, because of Divine Beast Vah Ruta. Finley says it is condescending for her mother to still treat her like a child. She's at that awkward Zora age where she is a young woman but still has not had her growth spurt yet. Finley believes she will never grow taller and laments that it is awful to be herself sometimes. She doubts that Hylians have to deal with such nonsense since they age so fast.
If Link asks who she is, Finley tells the hero her name and says all the other girls are "head over flippers" for Sidon except her, as she believes everyone has their own special prince out there waiting for them. When asked about the Bank of Wishes, Finley explains that it is a location halfway down Zora River. She goes on to say that if a letter is sent down the Zora River from the Bank of Wishes and there is a reply, that person will be theirs forever. When questioned about the letter, Finley reveals that she has a pen pal who she communicates with by tossing a letter in a bottle down Zora River.  
After the Divine Beast Vah Ruta has been appeased, Kodah can't find Finley, who apparently told her mother that she was going to find a prince of her own. Because of this, Finley can be found at the Bank of Wishes, where she asks her Love Letter to carry her thoughts. When she notices Link, she asks if he has a wish for the water fairy too, before realizing he does not have a letter. Finley then winders if Link is a servant of the water fairy. If he agrees with Finley's statement, she will tell him not to make fun of her just because she is a cute girl. If Link says he is a traveler, Finley will express excitement.
Either way, Finley will request Link's help. She asks Link to follow her love letter, a large container, when she releases it down the River to know whoever picks it up. Finley says to report back to her so she can find out what kind of person received it. She explains that she cannot do it herself because her mother does not want her to venture too far. Finley begs Link to find the person who picks up the letter. Finley then throws the letter into the Zora River and asks if he's ready, warning Link that the letter container breaks easily. This initiates the Side Quest "Special Delivery".
After following the letter, a Hylian man named Sasan receives it. He reveals to Link that he was traveling to Zora's Domain when he received the first letter from Finley. Ever since, he's been corresponding with her by having travelers take his replies to Zora's Domain. Sasan admits that he lied to Finley in his letters, claiming to be a buff traveler, and he can't meet her because of it. If he knew that he would fall for her, he never would have lied.
With Link's encouragement, Sasan then decides to pursue the sender. Finley can then be found back in Zora's Domain listening to Sasan tell her his traveling stories. She tells Sasan that Link was the one who helped make sure her letter arrived safely. Finley thanks Link for introducing her to her soul mate. After discussing it, the two decided they would thank him when they next saw him, and so they give him a Gold Rupee. Finley tells Sasan to be sure to swim, climb, and lift, so he can build up the muscles he promised her.
Finley laughs while she talks with Sasan. When Link speaks to her during this time, she claims to be discussing important things with him, such as how many siblings he has and his favorite foods. She also encourages him to swim so he can build up his muscles. Sasan agrees, saying he'll swim as fast as he can for her.
On her own, Finley tells Link about how gorgeous and great Sasan is. She reminds Link to say hello to Sasan when he arrives. At night, she tells Link it's time for kids like him to go to bed and that he should sleep soon.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Zora
Zora's Domain
"Special Delivery"
Kayden
Kodah
Sasan


== References ==