Frelly is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Frelly is a Gerudo who manages the Sand-Seal Rental Shop Southeast Booth in Gerudo Town. The Northwest Booth of the Shop is managed by Frelly's mother, Kohm. Link first finds Frelly in the Gerudo Desert just outside of Gerudo Town. When Link speaks to her, Frelly asks if Link crossed the Desert on foot.
If Link tells her that he came on foot, Frelly comments that it must have been difficult and that it is common sense to travel the Desert with a Sand Seal. If Link says he rode there, Frelly is impressed that a Hylian man has mastered Sand-Seal surfing. Frelly is speechless, pausing for a moment before saying that it must have been a challenge to catch a Sand Seal.
Frelly then introduces herself and explains that she rents out trained Sand Seals for people who do not have the time to train their own. She assures Link that she can answer any questions about Sand Seals and that she is skilled at training them.
When Link asks about Sand Seals, she explains that Sand Seals are native to the Gerudo Desert Gateway. Frelly then says that it is dangerous to cross the Desert on foot and that one would breeze along by crossing with a Sand Seal, making them very important to the Gerudo people. If Link asks Frelly how to catch a Sand Seal, she tells him that they are sensitive to sound and that they must be approached very slowly. However, she points out that most Gerudo just rent a Sand Seal to avoid the hassle of catching one.
If Link asks how to ride a Sand Seal, Frelly tells him that Link needs a Shield and that Sand Seals will simply go in whatever direction Link steers. She recommends that the best way to learn is to try it. Frelly also tells Link to come by her shop in Gerudo Town to rent a Sand Seal if he has trouble catching one, but quickly remembers that men are not allowed inside the Town. If Link is wearing the Gerudo Set, Frelly tells Link to look for the big Sand Seal statue to find her shop in Gerudo Town.
If Link speaks to Frelly at her Sand-Seal Rental Shop booth, she says that Sand Seals are the best way to cross the Gerudo Desert and offers Link a Sand Seal rental for 20 Rupees or 50 Rupees for a Wooden Shield as well, should he not have any shields. If Link wishes to rent a Sand Seal, he will tell Frelly to "seal the deal", which is a pun that confuses Frelly. Frelly herself also uses seal puns, such as telling Link that it would be a "sealious mistake" to travel the Desert without a Sand Seal and says "seal you another time" when Link rents a Sand Seal.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Gerudo
Sand-Seal Rental Shop Southeast Booth
Kohm


== References ==