Furosa is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Furosa is a Gerudo who manages The Noble Canteen in Gerudo Town. When Link speaks to Furosa, she greets him and is surprised to see a "Hylian vai." Furosa comments that Link seems too young to come to her Canteen and explains that they mix special drinks for adults there. If Link asks about the special drinks, Furosa explains that they make the drinks with the ice from the Northern Icehouse.
If Link asks for drink recommendations, Furosa tells Link about their featured cocktail, the Noble Pursuit. Furosa describes her Noble Pursuit as a light, sweet and cool sensation and that it is like drinking "distilled motivation." When asked if they serve Milk, Furosa is appalled by the idea of serving something so childish. She then complains, thinking that Greta sent Link to say that as a prank and criticizes the Gerudo Secret Club for only drawing young people's attention.
When Link ends the conversation, Furosa comments that she has not seen Pokki in a while, explaining that Pokki used to come to the Canteen every day to drink Noble Pursuit. Furosa cuts herself off and apologizes after realizing that there is no reason to talk to Link about this.
During the Shrine Quest, "The Perfect Drink", Link tries to order a Noble Pursuit from Furosa. However, she needs a huge amount of ice to make the drink and she is all out. In addition, due to its strength, she refuses to sell it to Link.
After Link informs her that Pokki has collapsed, she laments that she can't carry the ice from the Icehouse. She claims that if he explains the situation to Anche, she will allow him to take the ice, but he should get there while the sun is up as Anche goes to bed early. Once she realizes the distance Link would have to carry the ice, she offers to take it from him at the entrance to the ruins between the Icehouse and Gerudo Town.
Upon arriving to the Northern Icehouse, Link gets permission from Anche to take some ice once she finds out it's for Furosa. She warns Link to take the heat into account as he moves, as Furosa has no use for water. Link must now carry the ice to Furosa, who is waiting for Link past the ruins south of the Icehouse.
Furosa will be found at the end of the ruins. If Link is not wearing the Gerudo Set, she realizes that he's a man but decides it doesn't matter. She tells him that she may be able to make the best Noble Pursuit she has ever made with this ice. She then tells Link to go let Pokki know that the "best drink ever" is waiting for her, and she believes Pokki will come running when she hears about it.
When Pokki has returned to The Noble Canteen, she asks Furosa if there is any better than the taste of Noble Pursuit. Furosa is shocked Pokki ran all the way from Misae Suma Shrine when she was at death's door and asks if she's given up investigating it. When Pokki calls the work dull, Furosa reveals that she never thought it would be her thing. Pokki declares that her thing is drinking.
Furosa is thankful that Link was able to help Pokki, claiming that while she heard people outside of Gerudo Town are cold, Link doesn't seem to be. She tells Link to come back when he is of age for a Noble Pursuit.
If Link talks to Anche afterward, she will ask him to deliver more ice to Furosa for her. Anche charges Link 50 Rupees for the ice and explains that Furosa will reimburse him. Link is timed while delivering the ice and if he delivers it in a short amount of time, such as under 2 minutes, Furosa will be shocked with his time and reward him with a Gold Rupee. Furosa also states that Anche must be happy and asks him if he wants to deliver more ice.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Gerudo
The Noble Canteen
"The Perfect Drink"


== References ==