Fyson is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Fyson is a Rito who is initially found in Rito Village. When Link first speaks to him, he asks if he's noticed Divine Beast Vah Medoh. Even though everyone in Rito Village is concerned about it, Fyson believes he has bigger problems. He helps his mother, Misa, with her shop, The Slippery Falcon, which she wants him to take over some day. However, this is not what he wants, as Fyson's dream is to open his own General Store. He does not want to compete with his mother's shop, so he is found searching for a new place to open it. Even after Divine Beast Vah Medoh has been calmed, he's still plagued by his sorrows.
During the "From the Ground Up" Side Quest, after asking for 30 pieces of Wood to build more homes, Hudson will ask Link to find someone who would like to open a General Store in Tarrey Town. When Link asks if he should look for a traveling trader, Hudson suggests looking for a Rito, as their flight could help with transporting supplies.
Link can head to Rito Village to find Fyson, who is intrigued by the prospect of Tarrey Town. While he is excited to hear they need a General Store, he is worried about the distance Akkala is from Rito Village. However, he reasons that he needs to leave the nest and this is the only way to open his own Store. In the end, Fyson decides to head to Tarrey Town, planning to gather Items on the way that he will sell there. He thanks Link for helping him and says to come visit him.
On Fyson's journey, a group of bandits attempted to mug him, but he was able to fly away. Once he reached Tarrey Town, he established the Slippery Falcon (Tarrey Town Branch). He finds the town to be great, appreciating the weather and that his mother can no longer annoy him. He is glad to be able to run his shop and sell what he wants to. He encourages Link to shop as much as he wants.
After Hudson and Rhondson's wedding, Fyson is happy that all went well. He comments on Rhondson's beauty and hopes to find a wife as pretty as her one day. Due to his responsibility, he decides to go back to manning his shop.
When Link speaks to him, Fyson asks how he is and claims to be doing great. Since Link is an adventurer, Fyson realizes that he need to carry a lot of supplies with him. He encourages him to buy anything he needs at the Slippery Falcon (Tarrey Town Branch).
Fyson thanks Link whenever he makes a purchase. When Link buys up the entirety of one product, Fyson claims he'll stock up and be sure to find more. He will also purchase Items from Link. He asks Link to keep selling to him, continuously asking if he has anything else.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Rito
Rito Village
Tarrey Town
Slippery Falcon (Tarrey Town Branch)
"From the Ground Up"
Misa


== References ==