Gartan is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Gartan in a Hylian merchant that can be found traveling around on foot in the Gerudo Desert. He carries a Wooden Shield and a Traveler's Sword as he travels between Gerudo Canyon Stable and the entrance to Gerudo Town. Along the way, he passes through Kara Kara Bazaar.
Gartan is very interested in Gerudo women. He is very defensive of this, claiming that business is his top priority. He is disappointed that he is not allowed to move into Gerudo Town.
Gartan enjoys being a merchant because it gives him an excuse to talk to the Gerudo. At Kara Kara Bazaar, Gartan is excited about making small talk with the Gerudo there. Gartan then says that it is just part of his job to make friends and asks Link if he wants some Apples. However, he admits that he gets nervous around Gerudo ladies.
While Divine Beast Vah Naboris is still active, Gartan reveals that it makes traveling to Gerudo Town from Kara Kara Bazaar dangerous. However, he says it will not stop him from meeting Gerudo ladies. He is also very worried about the presence of thieves in Gerudo Town.
Gartan considers the term "wasteland" to be accurate when describing the Gerudo Desert, as there are many monsters and sandstorms. However, he doesn't know how else someone is supposed to meet Gerudo women. 
Gartan can also be found at the Gerudo Canyon Stable, where he tells Link that he wishes more Gerudo ladies would come to the Stable. Gartan sometimes mutters about his determination to get into Gerudo Town and get close to the ladies. When Gartan notices Link listening, he tells Link that he was just muttering about "important business secrets."
Gartan came to Gerudo Town to get to know the Gerudo better, but he did not find out men were not allowed until he got there. Link can catch Gartan muttering to himself that there must be a way into the Town. When Gartan notices that Link is listening, he is startled and nervously explains that he was just thinking out loud to nobody.
If Link saves Gartan from monsters, he may say how close of a save it was to himself. He considers the only thing scarier than monsters to be Gerudo women. His strategy for surviving attacks is to run away. He gives Link Rupees for saving him.
Gartan will also purchase Items from Link. He is appreciative of the products he is able to buy, and he asks if Link has more for him.
Link can buy Items from Gartan. He thanks Link for his purchases. When Link buys all of one of his products, he apologizes that he has run out. He is grateful for Link's business when he buys all of his stock.


=== Wares and Pricing ===


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Hylian
Gerudo Canyon Stable
Gerudo Town
Kara Kara Bazaar


== References ==