Gleema is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Gleema is a Hylian child who lives at South Akkala Stable. She is the youngest of Dmitri's three daughters and is a big fan of Insects. As she walks around the Stable, she sings to herself. During the night, she sleeps in one of the beds inside the Stable.
When Link first speaks to Gleema, she greets him excitedly. If Link asks what is up, she shares that she has a secret and asks if he wants to know what it is. She shares that her older sister, Jana, loves Armoranths. However, she suddenly remembers that was a secret and realizes Jana will be mad at her. She was not supposed to tell Jana's love of Armoranths with anyone.
If Link speaks to Jana with an Armoranth, she will ask for it. Once Link gives one to her, she decides that the two of them could get along. Hearing that Link is a traveler, Jana reveals that she has a request for him. Gleema is a fan of Insects, and there is apparently one that she wants to see that she won't tell Jana about. She thinks it is something Gleema can not talk about with the people she is closest to. Jana asks Link to talk to Gleema about the Insect, so she can get it for her birthday. This begins the "Little Sister's Big Request" Side Quest.
During the Quest, Gleema will have another secret to share with Link. She shares that Jana hates dragonflies. While reading a book, Gleema saw pictures of a Warm Darner, a Cold Darner, and an Electric Darner, but Jana thought their eyes were creepy and got mad when Gleema showed them to her. Once again, she realizes that was a secret she was not supposed to share. She thinks Jana's fear came from how close the pictures were and that real dragonflies are cuter. When she grows up, Gleema wants to travel and meet dragonflies.
When Jana finds out that Gleema wants to see dragonflies, she is shocked. She reasons that Gleema kept her love of them to herself since Jana despises them so  much. For Gleema's birthday, Jana asks Link to obtain the three dragonflies. Since it is a surprise, she asks Link to say nothing to Gleema.
Once Link has the three types of dragonflies, Jana becomes grossed out and has Link deliver them to Gleema for her. Gleema is intrigued to hear that Link has something for her. Finally seeing actual dragonflies, Gleema asks if they are really for her. In her excitement, she calls out to Jana to show her the dragonflies However, shrieks as her sister approaches. As a reward, Jana gives Link a Silver Rupee.
After receiving the dragonflies, Gleema thanks Link. She also gives Link an update on Jana, Kaifa, and the Stable's Highland Sheep, saying they're all doing well. She also starts referring to Link as "the dragonfly guy".


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
South Akkala Stable
"Little Sister's Big Request"
Dmitri
Jana
Kaifa
Tenne


== References ==