Golden Lynels are recurring Enemies in The Legend of Zelda series.


== Characteristics ==


=== Oracle of Seasons ===
Link can be tasked to slay a Golden Lynel alongside other Golden Monsters by speaking to the Old Man south of the Gnarled Root Dungeon in Oracle of Seasons. The Golden Lynel can be found in the Tarm Ruins during Winter after Link has spoken to the Old Man. The Golden Lynel takes more hits to kill than a standard Lynel, though if Link is capable of slaying it alongside the three other Golden Monsters, the Old Man will gift Link the offense-boosting Red Ring.


=== Breath of the Wild ===

Golden Lynels are the strongest type of Lynel exclusive to Master Mode in Breath of the Wild. According to the Hyrule Compendium, Golden Lynels are said to have been Silver Lynels that were mysteriously transformed once they were struck by Lightning, consequently increasing their offensive power and overall health. Like their weaker counterparts, Golden Lynels are resistant to elemental attacks.
Golden Lynels typically carry Savage Lynel equipment, though the Lynel in the Coliseum Ruins may wield a Flameblade in addition to a Savage Lynel Shield and a Savage Lynel Bow. Like other Lynels, Golden Lynels tend to refrain from attacking Link if he is spotted passing through their territory. However, if Link does not leave their presence after a short time, Golden Lynels will start a battle with him by roaring and slamming their Weapon on the ground, causing a fiery explosion. Golden Lynels can be temporarily fooled by the Lynel Mask or by Majora's Mask, though they will eventually see through the disguise if they observe Link for long enough or if Link draws a Weapon while wearing the aforementioned Masks. In close-range combat, Golden Lynels may also swipe at Link with their Weapons or trample him with their hooves. From a distance, Golden Lynels may breathe fire at Link in three bursts, charge at Link in an attempt to send him flying, or jump through the air and stab their Weapon in the ground to create a shock wave near Link's position.
Except for the explosive blasts, attacks from their Savage Lynel Bows, and attempts to trample Link, all attacks from a Golden Lynel can be Perfect Dodged, creating an opening for Link to attack them. If Link manages to Perfect Dodge charges from Golden Lynels, they will skid to a stop and take a moment to recover. Additionally, Golden Lynels are susceptible to strikes to their heads with a Bow. When struck this way, Golden Lynels will fall to the ground, temporarily stunned. During this brief window of time, Link can mount the Golden Lynels and attack their backs with a melee Weapon up to five times. Attacks, while mounted on a Golden Lynel's back, will not degrade a Weapon's durability.
If Link's position is known but he is too far away if he is in an area inaccessible to a Golden Lynel, or if Link draws his Bow, they will switch to their Savage Lynel Bows and fire a volley of Arrows at him, either directly or by aiming at the sky to cause the Arrows to rain down from above. These Arrows can strike Link even if he is under protective cover or inside a building. If Golden Lynels travel too far from their territory or if they lose track of Link, they will teleport back to their initial positions.
Their base attack damage is double that of the Silver Lynel, dealing 60 damage plus the attack value of their Weapon. The fiery explosion caused by Golden Lynels deals a total of 216 damage, equivalent to 52 Hearts to an Armorless Link. Consequently, unless Link is wearing sufficiently strong, max-level Armor and has a Defense Up Food buff active, the explosive attack will kill Link in one hit even at maximum health.
When defeated, Golden Lynels drop Diamonds, Lynel Guts, Lynel Hooves, Lynel Horns, Rubies, Sapphires, Star Fragments, and Topazes.


== Gallery ==

		


== See Also ==
Blue-Maned Lynel
Golden Monster
Lynel
Malice Lynel
Silver Lynel
White-Maned Lynel


== Notes ==


== References ==