Gotter is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Gotter is a beautiful man who works at the Riverside Stable. Though Gotter works the Stable, he dreams about consuming a Recipe once favored by the Royal Family. When Link speaks with Gotter, the latter will tell him that the Riverside Stable's Inn is exemplary for its beauty. Afterwards, Gotter will recommend that Link visit the Millennio Sandbar, noting its pleasant environment. He will also compliment Link's appearance, claiming that he has beautiful features and asking the Hylian Champion to indulge in a request of his.
If Link agrees to hear his request, Gotter will praise his inner beauty. He explains that, in the past, Hyrule Castle used to be a wondrous beauty, and during that time an ancestor of his worked as a chef. Even when he was a child, he would imagine the meals served in the Castle when he ate his less-spectacular food.
As an adult, he continues to pursue his childhood dreams. He enjoys his work at the Riverside Stable, as it allows him to share stories with travelers. Even so, he wonders about what could have been. Seeing Link has rekindled his desire, and so he asks Link to keep an eye out for any cookbooks inside Hyrule Castle. This begins the Side Quest, "A Royal Recipe". Afterwards, Gotter will wait outside the Stable beside its Cooking Pot and muse to himself about delicious cuisine.
Though it is not necessary to complete the Quest, if Link returns to Gotter after reading either Castle Library Book in Hyrule Castle, he will ask Link to prepare it for him. To complete the Quest, Link must give Gotter either a Fruitcake or a Monster Cake.
If Link gives Gotter a Fruitcake, Gotter will pause to muse that Princess Zelda herself once enjoyed the same Recipe before eating it. Gotter compares its refreshing aroma to galloping across the plains on a Horse. However, he believes this undersells the dish's complexity, so he instead says it fills him with the adrenaline of being spotted by a Guardian.
Alternatively, if Link gives Gotter a Monster Cake, Gotter will mention that the minister of Hyrule favored it before eating it. Gotter will then compare the experience to biting into a Chuchu. Since that is disgusting and dangerous, Gotter instead says it is like being attacked by a Hinox.
In return for recreating either Recipe, Gotter will praise the Food and gift Link a Silver Rupee, valued at 100 Rupees. This completes Gotter's Quest. Afterwards, Gotter will mention that he would like to try any other Recipes that might be found in Hyrule Castle. If Link returns with the other cake after giving Gotter one, Gotter will ask Link to prepare it for him. If Link complies, Gotter will give Link a second Silver Rupee.
Gotter decides to continue practicing his culinary skills, offering his Food to patrons at Riverside Stable. He remarks that there are still many Recipes he does not know yet, comparing their number to the ostensibly endless horizon of Hyrule Kingdom.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Hylian
Riverside Stable
"A Royal Recipe"
Ember


== References ==