Guy is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Guy is a Rito who came from Rito Village to the Gerudo Desert to earn money and see Gerudo Town. However, he sits at Kara Kara Bazaar with no will to continue due to the Heat of the Desert. When Link first speaks to Guy, he asks if they have met before. Guy goes on to explain to Link that he came from Rito Village. If Link asks about Rito Village, Guy explains that it is a modest village far to the north on the Tabantha Frontier. If Link says that he has been there, Guy comments that it must have felt very cold to Link there. Guy then mentions that he has heard of a cooling Elixir that is made from insects with cooling effects and monster parts. Guy says that they are not selling the Elixir anywhere and he is not good at cooking. Guy says that he has heard that insects with cooling effects live in the cold parts of the Gerudo Highlands, but he does not want to fight the monsters there and mutters under his breath that he is "allergic to monster punches." Guy regrets coming to the Desert without a cooling Elixir and wishes someone had mentioned the Heat before he came all the way there. He also feels that the nights in the Gerudo Desert are a nice break from the Heat, but that the night is also scary. Guy then mutters under his breath that he is afraid of the dark. After speaking with Guy, Link receives the Side Quest, "An Ice Guy".
When Link returns to Guy with a Chilly Elixir, he will thank Link and reward him with a Purple Rupee. He also teaches Link that the Gerudo word for "thank you" is sarqso. When Guy is finished speaking, the Side Quest is complete.
Although Link gives him the Chilly Elixir, Guy never leaves Kara Kara Bazaar. At night, his excuse is that the Desert is not safe at night. However, he does not leave during the day either, saying that there is no rush and that he might leave tomorrow. Guy also says that he never understood how hot the Desert was before he experienced it and that he will have to get his child to travel too someday.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== References ==