Hestu is a recurring character in The Legend of Zelda series.


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
When Link first encounters a Korok, it believes it has been found by Hestu before realizing that Link is not Hestu. The Korok will then give Link a Korok Seed, asking him to return it to Hestu.
Upon finding Hestu, the Korok will be surprised that Link can see him, saying that the last time anyone was able to see him was 100 years ago. Hestu introduces himself and asks Link for assistance. He will tell Link that his Maracas were stolen from him by a group of monsters. Hestu explains that he is powerless without them, and so asks Link to retrieve them in his stead. This dialogue will trigger the Side Quest "The Priceless Maracas", in which Link will have to retrieve his Maracas from a chest in a nearby Monster Stronghold. If spoken to again, Hestu will ask if he completed the task and hopes the monsters have not been using them.
Once Link returns his Maracas to him, Hestu is overcome with joy and asks for them back. Once Link returns them, Hestu can tell something is wrong and realizes that the Korok Seeds inside the Maracas are gone. Hestu will then explain that if he had even one Korok Seed, he would be able to sing, dance and use his powers to expand Link's Inventory. Hestu can upgrade Link's Weapon Stash, Bow Stash, or Shield Stash. Hestu realizes that the other Koroks must have taken the Seeds and is surprised to find that he was the target of such a prank.
If Link has Korok seeds with him, Hestu can smell them out. For the first expansion of Link's inventory, Hestu asks for a single Korok Seed. Should Link refuse, Hestu will respond with a dejected sound. Once Link agrees to the trade, Hestu will ask which Stash he would like to upgrade. Every time Hestu upgrades a Stash, he will sing the tune that plays with it.
Hestu will only allow Link to upgrade two times before announcing that he needs to get back to Korok Forest. Hestu will wait to thank Link and see him off, but Link can talk to him to learn more about the Koroks. If asked about the Korok Forest, he will try to give directions based on what "Granpa" (the Great Deku Tree) told him: follow the Hylia River north. Asking about Hestu himself will have him reintroduce himself and state that he is the most celebrated musician in the Korok Forest. Should Link ask about Korok Seeds, Hestu will hesitate in his explanation before giving an excuse to not continue, saying his voice is blown out.
Hestu does travel north, but gets a bit lost along the way. While Hestu is lost, Link can find him at one of three stables: facing Wahgo Katta Shrine north of Riverside Stable, behind the Wetland Stable, or in front of the Woodland Stable. Link can get 4 more stash upgrades (for 6 total) before Hestu remembers the way back and moves to the Korok forest, where he will remain for the rest for the game, trading more seeds for more stash upgrades.
If Link makes it into the Korok Forest before getting these first 6 upgrades, Hestu will move to the Korok Forest straight away, and will no longer be found at the stables.


== Other Appearances ==


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===

In Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity, Hestu first appears in the Scenario, "Freeing Korok Forest" after the characters admit they might have gotten lost in the Lost Woods. He then becomes a character that can be controlled after it is revealed that a Malice swamp is blocking the way to Korok Forest. His main weapons consist of Maracas and Shaka Maracas.


== Nomenclature ==
Hestu's name is derived from a contraction of chestnut.


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		
		
		


== References ==