Not to be confused with Impaz, a character from Twilight Princess.

Impa (pronounced /ˈɪm.pə/ IM-pə or /ˈɪm.pɑː/ IM-pah) is the family name of several female members of the Sheikah, a mysterious tribe that has served and protected the Royal Family of Hyrule for many generations. Many Sheikah of the name so far have been associated with and taken on the role of accompanying an incarnation of Zelda, being like a bodyguard or attendant of sorts in some games. In addition, every Impa has given extensive information and guidance to the various incarnations of Link they encounter in their time.


== Biography ==


=== The Legend of Zelda ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Link aiding Impa from The Legend of Zelda 		 	 
In The Legend of Zelda, Impa appears in the game as an Old Woman, however she is only named in the game's manual. When Hyrule was under attack by Ganon's forces in The Legend of Zelda, Princess Zelda ordered her old nursemaid Impa to secretly flee and find the one who could save them. Ganon soon found out and sent his men after Impa. Though she managed to stay out of their reach for a long time, she was eventually captured. However, she was saved by a strange boy who managed to chase away Ganon's henchmen. Knowing that this was the one she had been looking for, Impa told him the whole story and asked him to go save Princess Zelda.


=== The Adventure of Link ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Impa showing Princess Zelda to Link from The Adventure of Link 		 	 
In The Adventure of Link, Impa had resumed her normal duties. One day, Link came to her because he worries about a strange mark that had appeared on his hand. When Impa saw the mark, she was initially startled, but quickly regained her composure. She then took Link to a door in North Castle that only the members of her family knew how to open. In the room behind the door lay a princess of Hyrule from ancient times and before Link could ask any questions, Impa told the princess' story. When she was done telling, she picked up six Crystals and a scroll lying on a stand next to the altar and gave them to Link. She explained that these items were handed down in her family for generations while waiting for the one who was chosen by destiny to save the princess. She implored Link to follow his destiny and save the princess, to which he agreed.


=== Ocarina of Time ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Impa escaping from Ganondorf with Princess Zelda from Ocarina of Time 		 	 
In Ocarina of Time, Impa was born and raised in Kakariko Village, the village of the Sheikah. She was selected as Princess Zelda's attendant and likely left her village around that time, giving it to the people of other races. Though Hyrule Castle became her new home, she still kept a watching eye over Kakariko though, but most of her attention went to the young princess. Until Link came along, Impa was the only one who believed her visions.
Link met Impa for the first time in Hyrule Castle, where she taught him "Zelda's Lullaby". She then helped him leave the castle. Outside, she advised Link to head to Death Mountain to find the next Spiritual Stone and returned to the princess. However, while Link was searching for the remaining Spiritual Stones, Ganondorf attacked Hyrule Castle, forcing Impa to flee with Princess Zelda. She barely managed to escape Ganondorf and stayed in hiding with the princess for seven years. It is likely that she was the one who raised Zelda during those years and taught her what she had to know to pass off as a Sheikah. Impa also kept protecting Kakariko Village to her best effort.  
When Zelda was old enough to take care of herself, Impa started focusing on her old village again. An old evil that had plagued Kakariko Village in the past and that was locked up by Impa, had returned. Impa went to the Shadow Temple in order to imprison the creature again. When Link went to Kakariko Village after his seven year slumber, Sheik greeted him and told him about Impa. Link followed Impa into the Shadow Temple and was able to kill the creature, awakening Impa as the Sage of Shadows. As her new duty as a Sage prevented her from being at Princess Zelda's side, her final words to Link were a request to protect the princess on her behalf. Before leaving, Link received the Shadow Medallion from her.
When Link defeated Ganon, Impa and the other Sages bundled their powers to seal away Ganon. During the ending, she could be seen overlooking a celebrating Hyrule on Death Mountain with the other Sages.


=== Oracle of Seasons ===
Impa is the trusted nursemaid of Princess Zelda in Oracle of Seasons, and she has been sent to bring the Oracle of Seasons away from the dangers that threaten her in Holodrum, and take her back to Hyrule. Impa poses as the cook for the Troupe of Performers accompanied by Din at the beginning of the game in a bid to stay close to Din. Unfortunately for her, before she could get a chance to relocate Din to safety, General Onox attacked the troupe and captured Din via a tornado. After Din is captured by General Onox, she puts all her trust into Link, as he bears the Mark of the Triforce. In addition, because of Onox's attack, she was unable to aid Link directly due to sustaining an injury.


=== Oracle of Ages ===

Impa is the trusted nursemaid of Princess Zelda in Oracle of Ages. Impa, sent by Zelda to bring Nayru back to Hyrule for protection, meets Link when she finds she cannot move a large rock with the Mark of the Triforce upon it: Link moves this with ease. However, Veran, Sorceress of Shadow, possessed Impa prior to Link's arrival. Veran transfers herself into Nayru, leaving Impa's body. After Nayru is kidnapped, she puts all her trust in Link to save Labrynna. Because Veran's possession of her proved taxing for her, she could not directly aid Link in his quest, though she did help Link regarding finding a secret passage in Nayru's house leading to the Harp of Ages.


=== Skyward Sword ===
Fi's Comment:
Fi's Comment: 

In Skyward Sword, Impa appears tall and lithe. She has straight light blonde hair, very tanned skin and the standard red eyes of the Sheikah tribe. The Sheikah Eye Symbol is tattooed in red on her forehead, and her left eye is tattooed with the three white marks above and a white teardrop below in the form of the same symbol. She also dresses in blueish purple clothing marked with yellow lines, an orange belt around her waist, and briefly wears a black cloak also marked with yellow lines.
As an old woman, her hair is greyish blonde and has become very long, now braided and wrapped around her eyes and forehead; it hangs down on one side for use as a pendulum. The white teardrop is still visible, but elongated on her wrinkled cheek. She stands quite short and wears a pointed red hood and cape with a variation of the Sheikah eye symbol on the back.
Impa appears as one of the chosen guardians of the goddess Hylia, who is tasked with watching over Demise in the form of The Imprisoned. Impa is a loyal and dedicated guardian and servant to the goddess and states that she gladly will take on the duty. 
In the final days of her life following a fierce battle with the Demon King Demise, the goddess ordered Impa to enter a Gate of Time to the far future to protect her eventual mortal incarnation and to help her remember her former life. When Hylia is reborn on the floating island of Skyloft as Zelda, she falls to the Surface. Impa then meets with the former goddess while saving her from a group of Bokoblins near the Earth Temple, later protecting her from Ghirahim's grasp as he is chasing after the young girl. Shortly afterwards, she voices concerns during her first encounter with Link at the fiery temple, believing that he is unworthy of being Hylia's chosen hero, as she was forced to intervene to protect the goddess incarnate during the young hero's absence. Later, at the Temple of Time in Lanayru Desert, she faces Ghirahim in a brief battle while Zelda escapes through a Gate of Time at the temple. She is saved by Link when her magical defenses are overwhelmed by her opponent's powers. She is thus able to proceed through the Gate of Time with Zelda after instructing Link to tell "the old woman" in the Sealed Grounds the recent events so that he may know where to go. Impa then escapes into the past, destroying the gate as it closes behind her and Zelda to prevent Ghirahim from pursuing them.
Link follows Impa's advice and returns to the old woman, who explains that Link will need to strengthen the Goddess Sword with the power of the three Sacred Flames in order to awaken the Gate of Time in the Sealed Temple. She also teaches the young hero how to play the Goddess's Harp as well as the "Ballad of the Goddess" to help him on his quest.
The young Impa remains in the distant past, her own time period, with Zelda and watches over her as she enters a deep slumber in the Temple of Hylia to keep the seal on Demise, who had only recently been sealed by her goddess incarnation, strong in that period of time. After the eradication of Demise outside of the temple in the present, an aged Impa witnesses Zelda finally awaken from her ancient slumber and briefly reunite with Link. The short-lived reunion is interrupted by an aggravated Ghirahim, who kidnaps the newly awakened Zelda and proceeds through the second Gate of Time that is located in the center of the temple, traveling to the temple's distant past. There, the young Impa is attacked and wounded by the demon lord. Once Demise is successfully revived and sealed once more by Link, the young Impa congratulates him on his world-saving accomplishment. After Zelda pleads with Impa to return to the present with them, Impa explains that she is a being of the past and must stay behind to take care of the Gate of Time and the Master Sword. She tells Zelda not to despair and promises that they will meet again one day, to which Zelda gives Impa one of her bracelets as a token of their friendship and the time they spent together before returning to the present.
In the present, an aged Impa awaits the return of the young heroes. As they step out of the Gate of Time, it closes behind them and disappears, revealing her to be behind it. As the heroes approach her, the bracelet given to her by Zelda many years earlier is visible to them, revealing she is indeed the same young, tanned and slender woman they had left behind in the past. She smiles at Zelda, telling her that they indeed did meet again. She then falls silent, steps backwards slightly and fades into particles of light, passing away. The bracelet given to her by Zelda falls to the floor and Zelda mourns her passing, thanking her for everything she did to help them.


=== A Link Between Worlds ===
In A Link Between Worlds, a violet-haired, aged Impa is once again Zelda's nursemaid and one of the descendants of the Seven Sages. Impa goes missing some time after Link clears the Eastern Palace, having been kidnapped by Yuga and turned into a Painting. Yuga eventually uses Impa and the rest of the Sages' power to release Ganon from his seal, in order to merge with the Demon King. Yuga then hides Impa's Painting within Turtle Rock, a magma-filled prison located in the middle of Lorule's Lake Hylia.
After Link rescues Impa from Turtle Rock, she acknowledges him as the hero of this era. Once each of the Seven Sages are rescued, they use their power to summon the Triforce of Courage; Impa then exhorts Link to return to Lorule Castle and use the Triforce to defeat Yuga Ganon.


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Impa presides as the elder of Kakariko Village in Breath of the Wild, awaiting the time for Link to awaken from his Slumber of Restoration. When Link arrives at her House, Impa remarks on how long it has been and asks if he remembers her. However, Link's lack of reaction to her makes her realize what his long slumber has done to his memory. Although disappointed, she admits that this may be for the best at the moment and beckons him closer. Once Link approaches her seat, she explains that 100 years ago, Zelda asked that Link be placed in the Shrine of Resurrection and went to battle Ganon by herself. Before she left, the Princess bid Impa give Link her parting words. Impa hesitates to give him Zelda's message, remarking that he should be prepared to risk his life if he hears it and that it may be too much for him without his memory. In the end, she allows him to decide when he is ready. If Link admits that he is uncertain, Impa will happily state that she is willing to wait longer for him to be sure and asks that he take his time.
Link will speak to her again to have her tell him her recounts of the past. She is impressed by his spirit despite his lack of memory and is reminded of why he is considered a hero. Impa knows that Link will need to know about the Royal Family and Calamity Ganon. She proceeds to retell the tale of 10,000 years ago to make up for the gap in Link's recollections. Impa explains that they had attempted to follow the steps that had been taken before, but they had failed. Finally, Impa gives him the last words from Princess Zelda.
Should Link ask what the Divine Beasts are, Impa can explain both them and their former Champions. She cautions Link against facing Ganon without them and asks that he instead recover them by visiting the other races. Impa adds their locations on the Sheikah Slate for him, beginning the "Free the Divine Beasts" Main Quest. It is then that Impa notices that Link's Slate is missing something and directs him to Hateno Village. If Link asks her, Impa will add another beacon on his Sheikah Slate to lead the way to the Village, beginning the "Locked Mementos" Main Quest. Finally, Impa bids that he go forth to meet his destiny, completing the "Seek Out Impa" Main Quest given to him by King Rhoam.
If spoken to again, Impa becomes concerned that Link is having second thoughts. She assures Link that she is not asking him to run to Ganon immediately and simply tells him to focus on the Sheikah Slate. Once their conversation is over, Impa reminds Link of Zelda's plight and urges him to face fate head-on. Should Link remain to speak to her again, she becomes a touch exasperated. She tells Link how important the Slate is to his quest and again reminds him that it must be fixed.
While Link speaks to her granddaughter Paya, Impa occasionally chimes in. As Paya warns the hero about the possible danger of the Yiga, the elder mentions a Great Fairy and tells Link it would be wise to find her. If Link asks Paya about where her birthmark is, Impa asks him to leave the subject alone for now. However, once Paya develops feelings for Link, Impa instead blurts out exactly where the birthmark is, much to her granddaughter's dismay.
Impa was formerly a royal adviser, responsible for relic research. She is about one hundred and twenty years old.


== Other Appearances ==


=== The Legend of Zelda (Valiant Comics) ===

In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Impa appears as two different Spirits. One is of her appearance in Ocarina of Time, and the other is of her appearance in Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity. Both are Primary Spirits. While the Ocarina of Time Spirit has no skills, the Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Spirit has the skill, Item Throw 🠅, which increases the power and distance of Items when thrown by the Fighter. The Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Spirit first appeared in the Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity event on January 8th, 2021.


=== Cadence of Hyrule ===

Impa appears as a playable character in Cadence of Hyrule. She only uses Spears and her Naginata as Weapons, and can dodge attacks while leaving a decoy behind if she is hit while at full stamina.
Impa knows the Spear Strafe and Naginata Charge abilities.
Impa also appears in Zelda’s quarters. If spoken to by Zelda, she will give Zelda the Telescope.


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===

The Impa from Breath of the Wild, now a young woman with a striking resemblance to future granddaughter Paya, is a playable character in Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity. A hundred years prior to Breath of the Wild, she fought alongside Link, Zelda, and the Champion against the hordes of monsters heralding the return of Calamity Ganon. Link first meets her as she is being chased by a horde of Bokoblins while trying to protect a Sheikah Slate. After spotting Link, she trips and tosses the Sheikah Slate to him, which awakens a small Guardian-like machine that Link previously saw lying on a rock. Link catches the Sheikah Slate and rushes to protect her, but they are interrupted when a Sheikah Tower erupts out of the ground between them and the Bokoblins. She soon joins the battle with Link in earnest when a Fire Wizzrobe attacks, and moves to intercept it, taking its Fire Rod upon its defeat.
She wields kodachi and is able to create clones of herself in battle by using the ZR Button to mark enemies with a Sheikah Sign then follow up with another attack to absorb it, up to three times, allowing her to build up her Special Bar faster with each Sign absorbed. The weapons she can use are, in increasing base strength, the Kakariko Kodachi, the Faithful Kodachi, and the Devoted Kodachi. She also utilizes Bomb Barrels whenever Impa uses her Special, with said barrel marked with a Sign.


== Trivia ==
In The Wind Waker, one of the stained glass windows in Hyrule Castle's basement depicts Impa along with the other Sages from Ocarina of Time.
According to Breath of the Wild – Creating a Champion, Impa is around 120 years old during the events of Breath of the Wild. This would also make her about 20 in Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity.
In Cadence of Hyrule, by playing the game co-operatively with both Zelda and Impa, Impa will still appear in Zelda’s quarters even though one of the player is already playing as her.
No unique dialogue occurs when speaking to Impa as Impa.


== Nomenclature ==
Impa's name comes from the word "impart", as the original Impa imparts the legend of Sleeping Zelda in the second game.


== Gallery ==


== References ==