King Dorephan is a recurring character in The Legend of Zelda series. He is the ruler of the Zora and, by the time of Breath of the Wild, has been for up to 200 years; he is also the father of Princess Mipha and Prince Sidon.


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
In Breath of the Wild, King Dorephan is first seen in his throne room at Zora's Domain. The king identifies Link as the Hylian his son Sidon had brought. King Dorephan introduces himself, and recognizes the Sheikah Slate on Link's waist. He realizes Link is the Hylian Champion, and asks if the hero has forgotten him. The king recalls their past meetings, claiming that his mind is overflowing with nostalgia. When he realizes Link has lost his memory, he asks if Link remembers his daughter Mipha. The king is surprised Link has forgotten his daughter, as the two were close friends. The king hopes that Link's memory will eventually return. King Dorephan moves onto Zora's Domain's dilemma, as Sidon believes discussing his sister is not helping matters, pointing out Link's confusion. Before doing so, King Dorephan compliments Sidon for bringing a Champion to their aid without realizing it. The king pleads for Link's assistance against the Divine Beast Vah Ruta. Muzu is opposed to this, although he is silenced by King Dorephan and Sidon. King Dorephan says Link is a Champion through and through, and that perhaps all of Hyrule is doomed to be swallowed by the sea. He states that the Zora and Hylians must put aside their differences and band together. Muzu accuses the Hylians for abusing the power of an ancient civilization, and blames them for Mipha's death. King Dorephan pauses, then tells Link of Vah Ruta's ability to create an endless supply of water. He says that the Divine Beast has been spouting water into the air, plaguing the area with heavy rainfall that will soon flood not only Zora's Domain, but the area downstream where many Hylians are in danger. The king says that Princess Zelda studied the Divine Beasts before the Great Calamity. He tells the hero what Zelda discovered about Vah Ruta, and is shocked that Princess Zelda herself instructed Link to appease Vah Ruta from within. King Dorephan decides regaining control of the Divine Beasts may prove useful against Calamity Ganon. He thanks Link for agreeing to help them, and believes their meeting was destiny. As a show of faith, King Dorephan gives Link the Zora Armor. Muzu disagrees with this decision, as Mipha herself made the armor for her future husband. Muzu leaves the assembly. King Dorephan says Muzu is not easily swayed once his mind his set. The king explains that Muzu was Mipha's tutor, and cares much for the Zora princess. King Dorephan wonders what should be done now, as Muzu was tasked with finding the needed Shock Arrows to appease Vah Ruta. When Sidon leaves to talk with Muzu, King Dorephan tells Link that Muzu is likely at the square and urges the hero to try and speak with him.
After Link has appeased the Divine Beast Vah Ruta, King Dorephan welcomes the hero and thanks him. King Dorephan rewards Link for his efforts, giving him Mipha's Lightscale Trident. If the Master Sword is not already in Link's possession, King Dorephan will acknowledge this and state only Link can wield it, as he is the Hylian Champion. The king thanks Link again on behalf of the Zora for his work. King Dorephan praises Sidon as well, telling his son how proud he is and that he will be a worthy heir when the time comes. King Dorephan watches as the gathered Zora cheer after Sidon has given his thanks to Link.


== Other Appearances ==


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===

In Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity, King Dorephan first appears in the Scenario, "Mipha, the Zora Princess," when Zelda asks King Dorephan for permission to let Mipha pilot the Divine Beast Vah Ruta. However, King Dorephan refuses, saying that letting his daughter pilot the Divine Beast is too much of a risk on Mipha's life. However, a horde of monsters coming to Zora's Domain is then reported by a Zora, and the meeting ends.
While King Dorephan is fighting, his soldiers around him are killed. King Dorephan is attacked by an Electric Moblin, when Mipha uses Divine Beast Vah Ruta's laser to obliterate the monster. She then destroys all the monsters coming to Zora's Domain using the Divine Beast.
After the battle and seeing Mipha's performance with Divine Beast Vah Ruta, he says that he will allow Mipha to pilot the Divine Beast. However, he makes Mipha promise that she will come back alive.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		
		


== References ==