Kodah is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Kodah is one of the owners of the Seabed Inn at Zora's Domain. She welcomes Link and begins talking about the Inn before abruptly pausing. Kodah asks if Link could be "Linny" and exclaims that he is without waiting for a response. If Link questions the name, Kodah insists he is Linny and says that it has been such a long time. Since she thought Link and Mipha had fallen to Calamity Ganon, Kodah pleads Link to tell her where he has been and what he has been doing. Embarrased, Kodah apologizes for making a ruckus, as she is an adult. She asks if it has really been a century, because to her it feels like yesterday. Kodah says they have both been through a lot and that they should catch up sometime soon.
When spoken to after Link has appeased  Divine Beast Vah Ruta, Kodah says to herself that the rain has stopped and wonders if it means the Divine Beast has as well.  Kodah notices Link standing nearby and apologizes, asking if he needs something. If Link asks who she is, Kodah says he is terrible and tells the hero her name. A hundred years ago she had asked him to choose between Mipha and herself, apologizing yet again. Now she is married to Kayden and has a daughter named Finley. If Link again questions the name "Linny", Kodah reveals that it is the nickname she gave him a century ago. Though much time has passed, she still remembers his real name is Link, the Hylian Champion who went with Mipha to fight back against Calamity Ganon. Kodah warns Link that the council of elders is angry about what happened, and that they believe Link stole Mipha away. However, Zoras such as Kodah who are around one hundred years old know what it was like back then and do not believe that, since Link and Mipha are the Champions who held back the Calamity for all of them. Kodah is shocked to discover Link does not remember Mipha. She says Mipha was a princess, the daughter of King Dorephan and Sidon's older sister. The Zora Champion could heal wounds and was loved dearly by all. A hundred years prior she piloted the Divine Beast Vah Ruta to help fight Calamity Ganon. Kodah leaves Link to figure out what happened next. 
Kodah is present when King Dorephan and Sidon thank Link for appeasing the Divine Beast Vah Ruta. When spoken to afterwards, Kodah thanks Link for appeasing the Divine Beast. Kodah is unable to find her daughter Finley, even though she has searched everywhere. When Kodah last spoke with Finley, she had said she wanted to find a prince of her very own. She wonders if Finley is on her way to the Bank of Wishes again.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==