Koyin is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Koyin works on a farm below the Hateno Ancient Tech Lab in Hateno Village, tending to animals such as Highland Sheep and Hateno Cows with Dantz. When Link first meets her, she is angrily talking to herself and holding a stick in her hand.
Should Link decide to speak to her, she is immediately aggressive toward him. However, she eases up a bit to explain her situation. According to Koyin, a group of monsters have been abducting her flock. This unlocks the quest "The Sheep Rustlers".
Koyin goes on to explain how she had driven off the monsters at another time, but is not certain enough of her ability to handle them all at once in their own territory. If Link asks her about Hateno Beach, she will tell him where to go. Once Link tells her goodbye, Koyin sighs and apologizes for being defensive. Until the quest is completed, Koyin is too concerned about the herd to go to sleep. She will stay up throughout the entire night to watch after them. Even the rain is not enough to budge her from her spot.
Once the monsters are taken care of, Link can speak to her again. She notes that her flock is calmer and asks him if he was the one to exterminate the rustlers. Should Link admit to it, she will say that she thought he would be the one to do so. If he simply bids her farewell instead, she stomps her foot and refuses to let him leave the conversation without hearing her out. Koyin rewards Link with ten bottles of Fresh Milk, noting that it does not feel like enough. She is pleased that she will be able to sleep soundly and offers through a stammer to speak to Link whenever he likes.
Koyin often mentions how Link protected her livelihood, pointing out how the health of her animals has improved. While she retains her sour attitude, she is a bit more at ease. When it rains, Koyin comments on how the soil smells like life itself.
Strangely, although she mentions sleeping soundly now that her herd is safe, Kyoin still does not go to bed at any time.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== References ==