Laine is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Laine is a Gerudo soldier who guards the northwest gate of Gerudo Town. When Link tries to enter Gerudo Town without a disguise, Laine will stop him from entering and tell him that she cannot allow a man to go inside. When Link speaks to Laine, she tells him that it is safe in the Town, but that she cannot allow a man inside by Town law. Laine suggests that Link goes back to the Kara Kara Bazaar if he seeks shelter.
Link can also receive the Shrine Quest, "The Silent Swordswomen", by speaking to Laine. She tells Link that she is impressed that Link got to Gerudo Town from the northwest, asking if he passed through the sandstorm to get there. If Link says yes, Laine will deny it and say that it is impossible. If Link says no, Laine does not find that surprising and goes on to explain that a Gerudo sandstorm has the "temperament of a raging stallion." Laine warns Link to keep his distance from sandstorms and that even Gerudo get lost in them. She goes on to explain that the ancients used storms to their advantage and hid treasure in them. When Link asks about the treasure, Laine says that she does not know all the details, but tells Link of a superstition that the statues of swordswomen scattered across the Gerudo Desert are said to point to the ancient treasure. Laine comments that even if it was true, the threat of the dangerous monsters in the sandstorms are not worth the risk. After Laine is finished speaking, Link receives the Shrine Quest. The treasure that Laine refers to turns out to be the Kema Zoos Shrine.
If Link speaks to Laine after calming the Divine Beast Vah Naboris, Laine will inform Link that the Sand-Seal Races will be starting up again. She also comments that it has been too long since she has seen the Sand-Seal Racing champion, Tali, show her talent and contemplates going to the Sand-Seal Rally after work. If Link asks about the Sand-Seal Races, Laine tells Link that he can find the Sand-Seal Rally by looking for a gate with red fabric past the other side of Gerudo Town. Laine explains that the Sand-Seal Race is traditional Gerudo competition. Laine also says that there are still monsters to take care of, even with the Divine Beast gone. Laine warns Link to tread lightly in the Desert before he leaves.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==