Lasli is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Lasli is a member of the Sheikah Tribe living in Kakariko Village. Her job is to call attention to the local Armor Shop owned by Claree called Enchanted. Once Link comes up to speak to her, she immediately begins to fawn over him, saying he is her type. She takes note of the Sheikah Slate he has with him and has to pause to realize what that means. Her outburst startles Link, but she reels back to point out that he must be quite important.
At 9:00 PM, Lasli will run for home, worried about her Grandmother chastising her. Once she is home, she will take a seat and remove her umbrella. Link can speak to her and she will tell him how she used to catch Sunset Fireflies at night. However, she cannot go out anymore due to the monsters and the Yiga Clan, which causes Lasli to lament her misfortune. If Link is already inside the house when Lasli first comes home, she is frightfully startled at first. Then she realizes who it is and relaxes. If Link enters her home late at night, Lasli will call him rude but then inquire about his Sheikah Slate.
Once Link has had his first meeting with Impa, he can visit Lasli in her home at night, which causes her to remark on his kindness. She tells him of how much she enjoyed the nighttime of the Village, but recalls that now she cannot go out late. Lasli wishes that she could do something about her situation. Later on, she will remark on how pretty the Fireflies were that evening. She admits she used to be good at catching them when she was younger.
Lasli awakens and leaves home at 5:00 AM each morning. She will remark on how Link seems to be wide awake so early. She mentions that she is going to work and that Link can join her if he's looking for clothing.
Even in the Rain, Lasli will wait outside and call out to potential customers.
At night, during "The Stolen Heirloom" Shrine Quest, she will sneak off to the small graveyard and quietly mourn the love of her life who was attacked by a monster. Apparently not even Claree knows of her visits. She mentions someone named Jarod during this, but this person is never met.


== Nomenclature ==
Lasli's name is derived from raspberry; this is especially apparent in the French translation, where her name, Amboise, is two letters off raspberry in French, framboise.


== References ==