Mimo is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Mimo is found sitting cross-legged near the Korgu Chideh Shrine after the Shrine Quest on Eventide Island "Stranded on Eventide" is completed. He asks Link what he is doing all the way up there. If Link answers that he is seeking adventure, Mimo says he must be drawn to heights. They both have that in common, as it is only from here that Mimo can properly hear the wind. Mimo wants to live free and unrestricted as the wind does. Biding here and listening to the wind's voice offers a taste of that freedom. Mimo asks if Link longs to be like the wind too. If Link responds with all his heart, Mimo says he thinks they will be fast friends and that he has never felt such kinship with a Hylian before. Link's style of wing is different than the Rito's but similar enough that he could undergo the training to become the wind. If Link asks what he is training for, Mimo explains that the wind is stormy or calm by turns but always moves as it will. Mimo seeks to emulate its freedom by mimicking its movements. Because of this, he has devised a training program that involves flying through rings suspended in the air. Mimo promises that if Link chooses to undertake this training he will find it enriching. When Link expresses hesitation, Mimo says there is a gulf in their thinking on the matter and asks to be left in peace so he that may hear the wind's voice. However, Mimo says it lifts his spirits to hear of Link's keen interest if he answers that he will do it. Mimo requires 20 Rupees to set up a training course. Once paid, he tells Link to wait here while he prepares the course for him. Mimo apologizes after setting the course up as it took longer than expected and says it is ready for Link to fly whenever he is ready. Mimo recommends a specific route that can be enjoyable to waft along on with its calm breeze. The choice is ultimately Link's, since whatever he decides the wind will welcome him. Once Link either lands on the ground before gliding through all the rings or completes the course, Mimo will come and retrieve him. If Link did not complete the course, Mimo will say he appears to have overestimated the hero's skill but assures him this is nothing a little practice on his course cannot correct. Successfully completing the course will cause Mimo to praise Link, who states that Link's score is unsurpassed even by the Rito. Mimo rewards Link with a Silver Rupee for becoming one with the wind. Achieving 50 rings or more rewards Link with a Gold Rupee as Mimo wonders if he is not a Rito in disguise. Link can speak with Mimo anytime after to redo the course.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==