Mipha is recurring character in The Legend of Zelda series.


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Mipha is the Princess of the Zora, a friend of Link, and one of the Champions. She is described as being introverted and has a gift for healing. Mipha was in love with Link and made him Zora Armor before her death during the Great Calamity. Link later receives the armor from Mipha's father, King Dorephan.
Mipha was a skilled spearwoman and owned a weapon known as the Lightscale Trident. A replica of the Lightscale Trident called the ceremonial trident, is used in the Zora’s Champion Festival. Muzu was Mipha’s teacher and cared for her greatly.
During the Great Calamity, Mipha succumbed to the Scourge of Divine Beast Vah Ruta, Waterblight Ganon, which then possessed the Divine Beast. After Link defeats Waterblight Ganon and frees Ruta, Mipha greets the hero, stating that because of his courage she and Vah Ruta are now free. She thanks Link for this freedom, for they can be together again. Mipha explains that, as a spirit, her ability to heal would be wasted on her. The Zora Champion then gives Link her healing power, known as Mipha's Grace. Mipha tells the hero that the day before, she had almost given up hope of being freed, accepting that she may remain trapped within Vah Ruta for eternity. She then reveals that she had hoped all this time to see Link once more. Mipha tells Link not to hesitate when her power is needed, as knowing this will put her spirit at rest. Mipha urges Link to save Princess Zelda as he is sent away from Vah Ruta. After Vah Ruta unleashes its strike on Calamity Ganon, Mipha wonders how her father is, wishing that she could see him once more. 
Mipha’s father, King Dorephan, gives Link Mipha's Lightscale Trident after freeing Vah Ruta as a sign of gratitude from the Zora. 
During Link's 10th Recovered Memory, "Mipha's Touch", it is revealed that Mipha and Link were childhood friends. Mipha and Link are shown sitting on Vah Ruta's trunk, as Mipha heals a wound on Link's arm. She remarks that this reminds her of when they first met. She describes Link as having been a reckless boy, injuring himself at every turn, and that she would always heal him. The Zora comments that since he was a Hylian, Link seemed to grow up much faster than she. Mipha then changes the subject, asking what could be done if Calamity Ganon truly returned, since they do not know much about the oncoming dangers. Mipha assures Link that no matter how difficult the battle is, or how severe his wounds, she is willing to heal and protect him. Shyly, Mipha says that perhaps when it is all over, they can spend time together as in their younger days. 
After Calamity Ganon's defeat, Mipha can be seen on top of Hyrule Castle with the other Champions' spirits and King Rhoam. 
An amiibo based on Mipha released on November 10 2017. This amiibo is compatible with Breath of the Wild's DLC packs.


== Other Appearances ==


== Nomenclature ==
Like most Zora in Breath of the Wild, Mipha's name is a musical reference. Her name seems to come from western solfège, "Do Re Mi Fa Sol La Ti Do."


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		


== References ==