The Molduking is an overworld boss in Breath of the Wild. It's exclusive to The Champions' Ballad DLC Pack.


== Characteristics ==

The Molduking is a boss first appearing as part of the Divine Beast Tamer's Trial in the "EX Champion Urbosa's Song" Main Quest. The Molduking is a giant Molduga that gained power by resting underground for centuries, absorbing iron into its skin to bolster its defensive capabilities far beyond its Molduga counterparts. Consequently, the Molduking is seen with a Gerudo Spear, Golden Claymore, Rusty Broadsword, Rusty Halberd, and a Throwing Spear sticking out of its hide, indicating failed attempts to slay it.
In the "EX Champion Urbosa's Song" Main Quest, Link must slay the Molduking in order to make the Keive Tala Shrine appear. After the Molduking has been defeated, it will reappear in the East Barrens after every Blood Moon.
Teake has heard about the Molduking, claiming it's been sighted recently. She also says that Traysi went out to investigate it. Traysi can be found on a mesa nearby, where she shares that Gerudo have tried fighting it, but they couldn't make a dent. When Link defeats it, Traysi asks to write all about it. However, she takes Link's silence as a denial.
Similar to its Molduga counterparts, the Molduking swims beneath the desert sand in search of prey. When it detects prey moving upon the sand, the Molduking will rush towards the disturbance and leap into the air, attempting to consume anything nearby in its mouth. Link can trick the Molduking into exposing itself by throwing Remote Bombs or shooting Bomb Arrows at the sand near it. If it is struck by either explosive force while in the air, the Molduking will fall to the desert floor and temporarily lie stunned.
Like the Igneo Talus Titan, the defeat of the Molduking does not count towards its respective Medal of Honor.


== Nomenclature ==
The Moldukings' name comes from Molduga and King, referencing how it is the strongest Molduga around.


== See Also ==
Molduga


== References ==