Monk Maz Koshia is the final boss in The Champions' Ballad DLC for Breath of the Wild, located in the Final Trial.


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Monk Maz Koshia is a Sheikah Monk who appears in the "EX The Champions' Ballad" Main Quest. Monk Maz Koshia's goal is to test those who wish to undergo the Divine Beast Tamer's Trial. He first speaks to Link inside the Shrine of Resurrection, where he bestows the One-Hit Obliterator to Link as the first part of his Trial. He informs Link that to complete this part of the Trial, he must travel to the four marked locations on the Great Plateau and defeat the bands of enemies there.
After Link has done this, Monk Maz Koshia will congratulate Link on his progress and reveal that this task was the first of many in the Trial. The Monk continues, saying that the One-Hit Obliterator will guide him to the next steps. This causes the One-Hit Obliterator to split into four glowing orbs, which scatter to various parts of Hyrule. Monk Maz Koshia urges Link to follow them in order to continue.
After Link completes "EX Champion Daruk's Song", "EX Champion Mipha's Song", "EX Champion Revali's Song", and "EX Champion Urbosa's Song", Monk Maz Koshia will call to Link once more, instructing him to return to the Shrine of Resurrection to face his final trial. Once Link returns to the Shrine of Resurrection, Monk Maz Koshia will greet Link and tell him to return the Sheikah Slate to the terminal he found it in to reveal the passageway to his final trial. Upon doing so, the resting chamber closes itself and begins to descend.
Once the chamber has fully descended, Monk Maz Koshia will welcome Link to the labyrinth which houses the Monk. The Monk guides Link to the labyrinth's Guidance Stone before leaving the hero to complete the labyrinth of his own accord.
Upon reaching Monk Maz Koshia, he once again greets Link, revealing the end of his final trial. Monk Maz Koshia stands up and teleports the two of them away to a platform in the sky, where they must do combat.
Once Link defeats Monk Maz Koshia, he will shrink to his normal size and commend Link for overcoming all obstacles he could conceive. Afterwards, Monk Maz Koshia will activate the flying structure that they are on, causing the Master Cycle Zero to rise from within. Monk Maz Koshia explains that the Master Cycle Zero is a masterpiece of innovation that was intended for the "one true hero". With his role served, Monk Maz Koshia wishes Link well before returning him to the Great Plateau.


== Characteristics ==

Monk Maz Koshia boasts a wide array of tactics that he may use in his fight against Link. Like a Yiga Footsoldier, Monk Maz Koshia can magically teleport and strike Link from above with his Sword, or he may use a Bow and shoot at Link from the air. Monk Maz Koshia can use Fire Arrows, Ice Arrows, and Shock Arrows to strike Link.
After Monk Maz Koshia's health has been reduced by 25%, he will retreat and split himself into nine copies. Each of these copies can damage Link, though only one of them can sustain more than one hit. In order to advance, Link must find the correct copy of Monk Maz Koshia and attack him. The copies will work in unison to attack Link, until they are destroyed. When all of the copies have been destroyed, Monk Maz Koshia may summon another set of them.
Once Monk Maz Koshia's health has been reduced to half, he will retreat again and magically enlarge himself while flying in the air. At this stage, Monk Maz Koshia can use charged laser attacks to strike Link. If Link deflects one of these lasers back at Monk Maz Koshia, the Monk will be temporarily stunned, allowing Link to attack. Monk Maz Koshia may also summon a series of eight metallic, spiky balls. Monk Maz Koshia will sequentially cast these balls at Link in an attempt to hurt him. Afterwards, Monk Maz Koshia will begin charging a Lightning storm, which will strike each of the metallic balls. Much like with Thunderblight Ganon's metal spikes, Link can use Magnesis to direct one of the metallic balls near Monk Maz Koshia, causing him to be struck by his own Lightning. Monk Maz Koshia can also magically tilt the battle stage before summoning the metallic balls, which will roll towards the bottom of the slope before falling off. Monk Maz Koshia can also stomp the ground to cause a tornado to chase Link around. If Link is hit by the tornado, he will be struck by a strong pulse from the ground.
At some point, Link can ground Monk Maz Koshia. If Link gets close to Monk Maz Koshia's feet, the Monk will stomp the ground, damaging the Hylian Champion. Monk Maz Koshia can also summon two miniature copies of himself, who will attack Link in a similar manner to the second phase of the fight.
Once during the battle, Link can distract Monk Maz Koshia with Mighty Bananas, leaving the Monk temporarily vulnerable to attack.


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		
		


== See Also ==
Monk


== References ==