Old Men are recurring characters in The Legend of Zelda series.


== Biography ==


=== The Legend of Zelda ===
Main articles: Sword-Giving Old Man, White Sword-Giving Old Man, Magical Sword-Giving Old Man and Letter-Entrusting Old Man
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			An Old Man giving Link a 2nd Potion or a Heart Container from The Legend of Zelda 		 	 
In The Legend of Zelda, there are several Old Men across Hyrule, each serving various needs, such as supplying Link with his first Sword, or giving helpful advice regarding enemies such as the Dodongo. Many helpful items can be obtained from these old men, and a mini-game can be played with them called the Money Making Game. If he is found in dungeons and is stabbed, the Torches around him will fire energy blasts at Link, similar to those of a Stone Statue.
Link can receive the Letter from the Letter-Entrusting Old Man in a northeast cave of Hyrule. When Link shows the Letter to various Old Women, they will sell him Life Potions and 2nd Potions.


=== The Adventure of Link ===
In The Adventure of Link, one Old Man resides in each town. They teach Link useful Magic once he has achieved the necessary prerequisites. These magical abilities are usually required for access to the next area that Link must travel to.


=== Oracle of Seasons ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The secret home of the Old Man from Oracle of Seasons 		 	 
In Oracle of Seasons, Old Men appear in caves that Link finds using by using the Shovel or  burning trees using Ember Seeds. Some bribe Link not to tell anybody about their secret caves by giving him a large sum of approximately 300 Rupees. Others will thank Link, and charge him a large sum of money in order to repair their doors. 
There are three special Old Men in Holodrum who differ from the rest. The first (and only required one) lives in a house in Holodrum Plain, accessible after getting the Flippers. At first, the Old Man will only mutter to himself about someone he is waiting for. After getting the first five Essences of Nature, Link must visit and speak to him once more to receive the Round Jewel.
The second is a gold-robed Old Man living in a cave on the bottom of the river just below the Gnarled Root Dungeon, only accessible in Summer. At first, he will simply instruct Link to find and slay all four Golden Monsters; once Link has done so, he will reward him with the Red Ring.
The last one can be found in a hidden underground cavern behind the Clock Shop after beating a non-Linked game. This Old Man asks for a Secret, and if this secret is retrieved from a linked Oracle of Ages game and given to him, he will upgrade Link's Noble Sword to the Master Sword (or his Wooden Sword to the Noble Sword, if applicable).
In a linked version of the game, another Old Man can be found inside the Hero's Cave.


=== Oracle of Ages ===
Only one Old Man cave is present in Oracle of Ages and is found in Rolling Ridge Base. In the past it is inhabited by a generous Old Man, who would give Link 200 Rupees. On the opposite, the Old Man inhabiting it in the present would charge him 50 Rupees to repair the door.


=== Four Swords Adventures ===
Old Men return in Four Swords Adventures, as Spirits who will assist the four Links by giving them hints in form of bizarre remarks. One appears in the Cave of No Return, jealous over Link for having friends, something he himself never had. He informs them that they can make it over the chasm by throwing themselves over. However, it is not a given that they'll give the four Links any hints or usable information, as sometime they will just give bizarre remarks, such as the old man found at the graveyard.


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Main article: King Rhoam
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Link meeting the Old Man from Breath of the Wild 		 	 
In Breath of the Wild, an Old Man lives in the Great Plateau. He is first seen after Link emerges from the Shrine of Resurrection, beneath a small alcove. Link can steal the Baked Apple near the Old Man's fire, only to be chided for stealing. However, the Old Man reveals this to be a joke, and welcomes Link to eat it. He also invites Link to take the torch leaning against the wall behind him, though he asks what Link intends to use it for. If Link replies that he plans to use it as a weapon, the Old Man will advise him to take the axe found nearby in a tree stump instead, if Link tells him he plans to use it to light fires, he will tell him to use caution, and if Link refuses to tell him, he will just let him be. If Link interacts with him and tries to leave, he will insist that Link take a moment to talk with him. If Link insists on leaving, he will let him go. He will also comment on Link's silence. He introduces himself as an old fool and informs Link that they are on the Great Plateau, the origin of the kingdom of Hyrule. He then points out the Temple of Time, which was formerly a site of sacred practices. When leaving, the Old Man will remind Link that he must go where the Sheikah Slate points him. If Link asks him what he is doing, he will say that he is relaxing by the Campfire and that he must cook himself another Baked Apple.
The Old Man will also give Link some advice about Cooking and fighting.
After Link causes the Great Plateau Tower to rise, the Old Man descends upon Link with his Paraglider at the base of the Tower. He greets Link and informs him that Sheikah Towers across Hyrule simultaneously arose, and asks Link if he noticed anything peculiar while he was atop the Tower. Upon hearing of the disembodied voice that was guiding Link, the Old Man points out the caliginous force surrounding Hyrule Castle, declaring it the Calamity Ganon. He tells Link that one century prior, the Calamity Ganon brought destruction upon Hyrule until it was contained within Hyrule Castle. Warning Link of the inevitability of the Calamity Ganon's escape, he asks whether the young hero intends to confront it and draws attention to the fact that leaving the Great Plateau is impossible without a Paraglider. Upon Link asking for the Paraglider, the Old Man directs him to the nearby Oman Au Shrine, telling him that he will trade the Paraglider in exchange for the treasure inside.
After this, the Old Man is found north of the Old Man's Cabin, attempting to chop down a tree. If Link inquires what he is doing, he replies that he wants to use the tree as Firewood, and gives Link a few tips on tree-chopping. He will also ask if Link will cut the tree down for him, since he is tired. If Link does so, the Old Man will be grateful and invite him to take the Firewood obtained from chopping up the tree. He will then walk over to the Cooking Pot in front of the Woodcutter's House and sit down. Inside, his diary can be read, giving Link a hint that if he can make the Spicy Meat and Seafood Fry, he can obtain the Warm Doublet from the Old Man. If Link successfully makes this dish and shows it to him, the Old Man will thank him and give him the Warm Doublet.
Alternatively, if Link manages to climb to the peak of Mount Hylia, the Old Man will give him the Warm Doublet there instead, as well as telling him about the Sheikah Slate's Scope function.
He can also be found in the Forest of Spirits, crouching behind a tree during the day. If talked to, he will say that he is hunting, and implores Link to crouch down as well, as not to scare away his prey. However, even if Link does this, it will achieve nothing of significance. If talked to again, he will instruct Link about hunting, then make his way to the nearby Cooking Pot and sit. At night, he will be sleeping in the ruin nearby.
After Link completes the Ancient Shrine, he is met outside by the Old Man, who congratulates him on obtaining a Spirit Orb and reveals the significance of the Spirit Orb in relation to the ancient civilization of the Sheikah, who constructed the Ancient Shrines across the land. He amends his bargain and tells Link that there are three remaining Ancient Shrines on the Great Plateau, and that he will receive the Paraglider upon having completed them all. Encouraging Link to use the Great Plateau Tower as a vantage point to locate the other Shrines, he teaches Link about the Sheikah Slate's ability to Warp to Sheikah Towers and Ancient Shrines that he's encountered before as a shortcut for ascending the Tower.
If Link converses with him near a Cooking Pot, the Old Man will give him cooking advice.


== Other Appearances ==


== Other Similar Old Men ==
Sahasrahla, Aginah, and the Lost Old Man – in A Link to the Past.
Ulrira – in Link's Awakening.
Old Man in Kakariko Village‎ – in Ocarina of Time.
Lake Scientist – in Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask.
Old Man Ho Ho – in The Wind Waker.
Sturgeon – in The Wind Waker and The Minish Cap.
Gramps – in A Link Between Worlds


== Trivia ==
In The Legend of Zelda, Link was originally going to have a choice between taking the Wooden Sword or the Boomerang.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		


== See Also ==
Old Woman


== References ==