Pikango is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Pikango is a traveling painter hailing from Kakariko Village. He can first be found in Kakariko Village, painting a picture of Impa's House. He asks if Link may be a traveler like him. Pikango explains that he travels Hyrule Kingdom to find incredible sights to paint. The reason he has returned to Kakariko Village is to search for the Great Fairy Fountain rumored to be there. However, since he has not lived in the village for many years, he is unknown and considered an outsider, meaning nobody will say any more on the subject to him. Still, Pikango is determined to find the Fountain and tells Link that he will inform him of any new leads. Even in the Rain, his determination only grows. At night, he will take refuge in the Shuteye Inn, dreaming of locating the Fountain.
Once Link returns to the village, Pikango will tell him he knows where the Great Fairy Fountain is, but can't get far enough to see it. He asks Link if he will come with him to see it, and if Link obliges, he leads him up to the forest near Kakariko Village. Upon reaching the entrance, Pikango runs out of breath and tells Link to go ahead and see if he can find it. He also asks Link to take a picture of it if he does stumble upon it. When Link returns to show him the picture, Pikango admits he thought it would look more 'elegant', but still offers to reward Link for his help by telling him the location of one of the pictures on Link's Sheikah Slate.


== Nomenclature ==
Pikango is one of three Sheikah (save the Monks) whose name isn't derived from a fruit, with another being Impa, whose name pays tribute to previous Impa, and references her as the latest incarnation of the character. The other is Master Kohga, who, along with the Yiga Clan, references Iga and Koga. Pikango may come from "Pic and go", referencing the fact that he is a traveling painter. It also references Picasso, an artist who was notorious for his child-like paintings.


== Gallery ==

		


== References ==