This article is about the eponymous character of The Legend of Zelda franchise. For the video-game series named after her, see The Legend of Zelda series. For other uses, see Zelda (disambiguation). 

Zelda,(SS | BotW | TCT | SSBM | SSBB | HWDE | SSBfWU | SSBU | CoH | HWAoC)[name reference needed] traditionally Princess Zelda,(TLoZ | TAoL | ALttP | OoT | OoS | OoA | FS | TWW | FSA | TMC | TP | ST | ALBW | BotW) is the eponymous character of The Legend of Zelda series. With the exception of Link's Awakening, Majora's Mask, and Tri Force Heroes, an incarnation of Zelda or one of her alter egos has always been one of the central characters in the series.


== Physical traits ==
Princess Zelda is often shown as a beautiful and elegant princess, with the exception of Skyward Sword, where she is portrayed as an ordinary girl before the kingdom of Hyrule had been established. She is always either a child, teen, or young adult. Her hair color is depicted as blonde in most games of the series, as well as brown in Twilight Princess and red in The Legend of Zelda and The Adventure of Link. Her eyes are portrayed in different shades of blue throughout all the games, with the exception of her green eyes in Breath of the Wild. Her ears are always pointed, as is characteristic of all Hylians, although in some games her ears are shorter than in others. The dresses that she wears are long with determinate colors, such as different tones of pink, white, and blue. Most of her dresses are shown with the Hylian Crest, and in almost every game, she is seen wearing a tiara with either a red, pink, or blue jewel in it. In some games, she also wears long gloves. Princess Zelda is seen wearing makeup in most games, such as in The Wind Waker and Spirit Tracks, and her hairstyle is characterized either with her hair down or with braids. She wears high heels, although in Twilight Princess, Skyward Sword, and Breath of the Wild she wears boots. She also occasionally wears sandals, such as in Skyward Sword and Breath of the Wild. Each incarnation of Zelda has been shown at various ages depending on which title they appear in. They have appeared as a child, a teenager and as a young adult; for example, the Princess Zelda in Twilight Princess is around 20 years of age.


== Personality ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Princess Zelda from Mirage Castle's Battle 		 	 
Zelda is depicted as a kind and benevolent ruler with a wisdom beyond her years and a deep love towards the people she watches over. She is a caring, gracious, and self-sacrificing person. Zelda's most prominent display of compassion and selflessness was when she saved the life of Midna, the Princess of the Twilight Realm, who had been nearly killed by the false King of the Twilight, Zant. Zelda's wisdom is her most valuable attribute. As a matriarch, it is imperative that she makes the wisest decision concerning the fate of Hyrule; in Twilight Princess when Zant threatened her life and the lives of all of her subjects, she wisely surrendered to him. She upholds her responsibilities no matter the cost and is always willing to help her friends, such as in Skyward Sword, where Zelda faces her duties as the goddess reborn and willingly remains in a deep sleep to keep Demise imprisoned within his seal. Above all, Zelda is known to be a forgiving person even towards those who have harmed her before, as seen in Spirit Tracks, where she asks Anjean to take care of Byrne even though he was the one who stole her body.
Princess Zelda is one of the three most important characters of The Legend of Zelda series, which is also why her name appears in the title of every game. Princess Zelda first appeared in the original The Legend of Zelda, and has since been featured in every subsequent game, with the exception of Link's Awakening. Each incarnation of the Princess is chosen by destiny to be the keeper of the Triforce of Wisdom in their respective eras, which is the main reason why they play such an integral role in the legends of Hyrule.
by the way, In Game Book "Battle of Mirage Castle", it is nighttime and you will take the place of Link who is trapped in the Crystal Moon, but only Link can enter the Mirage Castle.


== Abilities ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Princess Zelda calls upon the power of the Light Spirits in Twilight Princess 		 	 
Throughout the series, Princess Zelda portrays various types of both magical and physical abilities, ranging from capably wielding a bow to telepathy, as seen in A Link to the Past's introduction when she pleads for Link's help. 
Early on in the timeline of the series, the original Zelda, while born as a Hylian, is the mortal incarnation of the Goddess Hylia. Carrying on this divine blood, her female descendants are always the crown princess of Hyrule throughout its history. Several princesses within the bloodline are also the possessor of the Triforce of Wisdom, imbued with the essence of the Goddess Nayru. The essence of Nayru affords each Zelda divine wisdom, allowing them to discern the wisest decisions, especially in situations concerning the welfare of Hyrule. It grants them myriad mystical abilities, including the ability to heal others, though there is a possibility that this could also be an effect of their bloodline passing down Hylia's own powers and, later, the Light Force. Each incarnation of Zelda uses their powers to keep evil in check.
Many of her abilities as both a Sage and the wielder of the Triforce of Wisdom are widely illustrated in Ocarina of Time, one of them being that she has prophetic visions in her dreams. She also helps Link in their escape from Ganon's Castle by using her powers to magically remove the barriers blocking the exits. During the final battle between Link and Ganon, Princess Zelda uses her powers to restrain the King of Evil as Link delivers the final blow. Being the seventh Sage, she is the ruler of the rest of the six Sages, and it is with her guidance that the Sages seal Ganon in the void of the Evil Realm. Finally, with her powers as a Sage, she is capable of returning Link to his original time by simply using the Ocarina of Time.
Some of Princess Zelda's physical abilities are demonstrated in games such as The Wind Waker, Twilight Princess and Spirit Tracks. In The Wind Waker, Princess Zelda aids Link in battling Ganondorf by borrowing the young hero's bow and using it to fire Light Arrows at the King of the Gerudo. This skill is again portrayed in the final battle of Twilight Princess, where the princess yet again uses a bow and Light Arrows to strike Ganondorf while accompanying Link on his horse, and once more in the final battle against Malladus in Spirit Tracks. In one scene of Twilight Princess, Princess Zelda is seen wielding a sword, although it is unknown if she possesses any true sword skills.
As shown in Twilight Princess, Princess Zelda is capable of communicating with the Light Spirits. Just as the princess and Link are about to be trampled by Ganondorf's ghostly army, Zelda calls upon the Light Spirits to aid her in her time of need, and the spirits grant her the Light Arrow to banish evil.
In Spirit Tracks, Princess Zelda can possess a Phantom's body after Link strikes it with a powered-up sword or the Lokomo Sword. While in this state, the princess can help Link solve various puzzles as well as cross certain obstacles that the young hero cannot traverse by himself. Moreover, due to the Phantom's armor, she can also protect Link from attacks or use her strength to fight alongside Link and help him defeat enemies, as seen when fighting Geozards or Byrne.
In the Game Book "Battle of Mirage Castle", it has the same abilities as Link.


== Naming Tradition and Law ==


=== Origin ===
It was revealed by Hyrule Historia that when the kingdom of Hyrule was established during the Era of Prosperity, the daughters of the Royal Family were often named Zelda after their ancestor, the mortal incarnation of the Goddess Hylia, from the events of Skyward Sword.


=== The Tragedy of "Princess Zelda I" ===

While she was not the first Princess Zelda in the history of Hyrule, she was the first in a long line of princesses to be named Zelda by law and not tradition after she was put into a deep sleep for many generations. Her brother, the Prince of Hyrule at the end of its Golden Era, who was partly to blame for her comatose state, decided that, in honor of his sister, every princess born into the Royal Family of Hyrule should be named Zelda.


== Unified Timeline ==


=== Skyward Sword ===

The Zelda in Skyward Sword is the eleventh Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and is currently the earliest incarnation of Zelda chronologically to appear in-game.
In Skyward Sword, Zelda, daughter of Gaepora, lives in Skyloft with her childhood friend Link, where they are both students at the Knight Academy. After playing the role of the goddess at the Wing Ceremony, Link and Zelda go for a flight together, when suddenly a twister pulls Zelda and her Loftwing below the clouds. This phenomenon is later revealed to have been caused by Ghirahim, who needs Zelda's soul to resurrect Demise, his master. Upon Zelda's arrival on the Surface, however, she is rescued by Impa before the Demon Lord can capture her. Link then begins to look for Zelda and eventually finds her in the Earth Spring, but Impa impedes him from reaching the young girl, and instead urges Zelda to continue praying at each goddess statue to finish purifying her body.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Zelda, as seen in-game 		 	 
Eventually, Link catches up with Zelda and Impa at the Temple of Time, but their reunion is cut short when Ghirahim attacks the duo. In the midst of the frenetic action, Zelda gives Link the Goddess's Harp before she and Impa escape through the Gate of Time, with Impa destroying the gate to escape Ghirahim's grasp. Link manages to activate a second Gate of Time and meets with Zelda, who explains her true nature as the mortal reincarnation of the Goddess Hylia before telling Link that she, as Hylia reborn, must remain in a deep sleep to keep Demise imprisoned within his seal. Before doing so, Zelda explains that the goddess needed someone with an "unbreakable spirit" to defeat Demise. However, Hylia, knowing that the young hero would "throw [himself] headfirst into any danger, without even a moment's doubt" if it meant saving Zelda, used Link to try and bring about the destruction of Demise. She proceeds to seal herself into a crystal and sleep for thousands of years to ensure Demise's seal holds, and tells Link that he must find and use the Triforce to destroy Demise so that she will be able to wake up in their own time.
Although Link uses the Triforce to wish for Demise's destruction, Ghirahim kidnaps Zelda upon her awakening and takes her through the Gate of Time, where Demise is still sealed. Zelda's soul is absorbed and Demise is revived in his true form, but Link manages to defeat the Demon King and seal his remains in the Master Sword. After her soul is restored, Zelda and the young hero return to their own time, where she mentions to Link that she wants to remain in the surface and watch over the Triforce. Zelda asks what Link's intentions are for the future, and Link smiles at her, with the camera panning to show both his and Zelda's Loftwings flying back into the sky, implying that Link chose to stay with Zelda.
This incarnation of Zelda is unique in that she is not a princess during the course of the game's events.

Fi's Comment:


=== The Minish Cap ===

Princess Zelda in The Minish Cap is the eighth Princess Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the second Princess Zelda chronologically.
Princess Zelda is known to sneak out of Hyrule Castle to visit Link, who is a childhood friend. At the beginning of the game, Link and Princess Zelda attend the Picori Festival in Hyrule Town. When Princess Zelda wins the grand prize in Pina's drawing, she chooses a Small Shield as her prize and gives it to Link. In North Hyrule Field, Link and Princess Zelda are accosted by a Business Scrub, who shoots Deku Nuts at them until Link deflects one with his new Shield.
At the award ceremony for the Sword-Fighting Tournament, Vaati appears and breaks the Picori Blade, opening the Bound Chest and releasing monsters into Hyrule. Though he does not realize it, Princess Zelda shows herself to possess the Light Force he is searching for; declaring that she will only cause trouble if left alone, he places a Sorcerer's Curse on her and turns her to stone. To restore her, King Daltus asks Link to seek out the Minish and have them reforge the sacred Picori Blade, allowing them to break Vaati's Curse.
During his travels, Link learns that in order to reforge the Broken Picori Blade, it will need to be infused with the Four Elements scattered across Hyrule. He is able to traverse Hyrule along with his companion Ezlo, finding each Element and infusing them into the reforged Blade, turning it into the Four Sword.
Vaati follows them into the Elemental Sanctuary and learns from the Stained Glass within that Princess Zelda herself holds the Light Force. He knocks out Link and leaves to drain Princess Zelda at the roof of the newly-transformed Dark Hyrule Castle. Link is able to interrupt this process, eventually defeating Vaati and using the power of the Four Sword to restore Princess Zelda, who reveals that she saw visions of him while turned to stone.
The Castle begins to collapse, and Vaati makes one last attempt to eliminate Link in the Palace Courtyard, but is defeated once and for all. With Vaati defeated, the Mage's Cap appears, and Ezlo and Princess Zelda work together to use its power to restore Hyrule.


=== Four Swords ===
The Zelda in Four Swords is the fifth Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the third Zelda chronologically.
Zelda and Link appear as childhood friends in Four Swords. Princess Zelda is assigned the duty of protecting the Four Sword Sanctuary and the Four Sword. One day, she sensed something unusual at the Four Sword Shrine and took Link to accompany her to investigate. The seal on Vaati at the shrine had weakened, allowing Vaati to escape. Vaati kidnapped Princess Zelda to make her his bride and Link drew the Four Sword to save her.


=== Ocarina of Time ===

The Zelda in Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask is the fourth Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the fourth Zelda chronologically.
Growing up in the halls of Hyrule Castle, young Princess Zelda, referred to by the Great Deku Tree as the Princess of Destiny, was growing concerned with one of her father's associates, the Gerudo king Ganondorf, and a vision of his treachery did not help matters. Expressing her concerns with her guardian and nursemaid Impa, she continued to watch the Gerudo despite her inability to do anything about him. This changed when a young Kokiri boy named Link snuck into her garden courtyard.
Convinced that Ganondorf was after the Triforce, Zelda asked Link to find the three Spiritual Stones that would open the Temple of Time in order to prevent Ganondorf from opening the Door of Time and claiming the Triforce for himself. Unfortunately, Ganondorf made his move before Link could return, leading an insurrection in the castle. He chased after Zelda, who had the Ocarina of Time in her possession, when Impa escaped with her from the castle. Dashing out of the castle town with Ganondorf in hot pursuit, Zelda caught sight of Link diving out of their way. She turned and threw the Ocarina of Time to him, trusting that he would keep it safe while Ganondorf chased after them.
For seven years Zelda remained in hiding, training in the ways of the Sheikah by Impa until Link, who had become trapped within the Sacred Realm, was freed. Appearing before him under the name of Sheik, she assisted Link in awakening the remaining five Sages, all the while keeping her real identity secret.
When Zelda finally reveals herself, she does so not only as Princess Zelda but as the seventh sage, the leader of the other Sages, and wielder of the Triforce of Wisdom; however, having  watched them from afar, Ganondorf captures Zelda to drive Link into a fight to the death inside his castle.
In the game's conclusion, Zelda sends Link, the Hero of Time, back to his childhood to regain his lost seven years as compensation for his role in the war against Ganondorf. This would leave only the Hero of Time's legend behind him as he returned to the past and returned to Hyrule Castle to warn the young Princess Zelda of events to come.
The actions made by this incarnation of Princess Zelda were crucial to the development of the Zelda Timeline, since it was through Zelda's choices that three timelines were eventually created, making her instrumental in the history of Hyrule. Her plot with Link to retrieve the Triforce resulted in Ganondorf obtaining the Triforce of Power, eventually leading to Ganondorf besting Link in the final battle, and thus forming the Fallen Hero Timeline. Should Link succeed in defeating Ganondorf, sending Link back to his own time afterwards created two timelines: the Child Timeline and the Adult Timeline. The latter of the two shatters the Triforce of Courage and vanquishes the hero in the Adult Timeline, resulting in Hyrule eventually being flooded.


== Fallen Hero Timeline ==
The Fallen Hero Timeline is the timeline in which Link, the Hero of Time, despite his best efforts, was defeated by Ganondorf in the final battle. This turn of events created the timeline containing A Link to the Past, Oracle of Seasons, Oracle of Ages, Link's Awakening, A Link Between Worlds, Tri Force Heroes, The Legend of Zelda, and The Adventure of Link.


=== A Link to the Past ===

The Zelda in A Link to the Past, Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages is the third Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the first Zelda chronologically in the Fallen Hero Timeline.
In A Link to the Past, Princess Zelda is a Maiden descendant of the Seven Wise Men who had imprisoned Ganon in the Dark World. Seeking freedom, Ganon uses the wizard Agahnim to kidnap the descendants in order to sacrifice them and free him from his prison.
As the last free descendant, Zelda uses telepathy to contact the descendant of the Knights of Hyrule, Link, to save her. Despite his efforts in evacuating her from Hyrule Castle, Agahnim manages to capture Zelda and sacrifice her to the Dark World, breaking the seal between Hyrule and the Dark World. While in the Dark World, Princess Zelda is held inside a crystal prison within Turtle Rock. When Link frees her, she, along with the other maidens, breaks the seal surrounding Ganon's lair.
When Link makes a wish with the power of the now-freed Triforce, Princess Zelda returns with the maidens to Hyrule Castle to rule in peace.


=== Link's Awakening ===
Zelda is only mentioned at the beginning of Link's Awakening, when Link mistakes Marin for the Hyrulean princess due to their resemblance to one another. She has no involvement in the plot.
According to Hyrule Historia's timeline placement of Link's Awakening, this Zelda would be the same one from A Link to the Past, Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages.


=== Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages ===
In Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages, Zelda is revealed to be the hope of the people. She is the one who sends Impa to Labrynna and Holodrum to find Nayru, the Oracle of Ages, and Din, the Oracle of Seasons, and bring them to Hyrule for safety. Zelda herself appears if the two games are linked. When players have defeated both General Onox and Veran in the linked game, Twinrova will kidnap Zelda in order to sacrifice her to resurrect Ganon. Link dashes to her rescue and Twinrova fails to sacrifice Zelda, making them to sacrifice themselves in order to resurrect Ganon. Due to the fact that they could not sacrifice Zelda as planned, the Ganon they resurrect is mindless and raging and is defeated by Link. In these games, Zelda has a sprite similar to that of Marin, the girl Link mistakes for Zelda when he wakes up at the beginning of Link's Awakening.


=== Ancient Stone Tablets ===


=== A Link Between Worlds ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Zelda in A Link Between Worlds 		 	 
The Zelda in A Link Between Worlds is the twelfth Zelda in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the second Zelda chronologically in the Fallen Hero Timeline.
Zelda appears again in A Link Between Worlds. At her young age, she rules the entire kingdom of Hyrule alone. When Link first meets her, he warns her that Seres was attacked and turned into a Painting by Yuga. She tells the young hero to warn Sahasrahla in Kakariko Village and gives Link a charm that she has owned since childhood. When Hyrule Castle is under Yuga's attack, Link learns that the charm she gave is the Pendant of Courage, which she gave to him in anticipation of the oncoming misfortune.
When Link goes Inside Hyrule Castle, he encounters a confrontation between Zelda and Yuga. Zelda tells Yuga that his actions must cease and asks him how many more people he intends to kidnap, to which Yuga says he has been searching for all seven Sages of Hyrule. Zelda then accuses him of attempting to use the Seven Sages to revive Ganon, but Yuga ignores her and turns her into a Painting for her beauty. He then takes her Painting to the highest point of Hyrule Castle and escapes to Lorule. In Lorule, he uses the power of the Seven Sages and Princess Zelda to revive Ganon and merges with Ganon before all the Paintings, save Zelda's, are scattered across Lorule. After Link frees the sages and assembles the Triforce, he and Zelda use it to restore the Lorulean Triforce.


=== The Legend of Zelda ===

The Zelda in The Legend of Zelda is the first Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the fourth Zelda chronologically in the Fallen Hero Timeline.
An army of evil, led by Ganon, seeks to possess the Triforce to plunge the land of Hyrule into darkness. Stealing the Triforce of Power, Ganon sought to find the last known piece, the Triforce of Wisdom.
Princess Zelda, as a member of the bloodline that carries and protects the Triforce of Wisdom, broke the Triforce piece into eight fragments and hid them throughout the realm in an effort to avoid its possession under Ganon's hand. At the same time, she sent out her handmaiden, Impa, to look for a hero to save the land. Ganon learned of what Zelda had done and imprisoned her within his lair under Death Mountain, surrounded by a wall of flame.
Link eventually finds the eight fragments of the Triforce of Wisdom scattered throughout Hyrule and travels to Death Mountain where, upon defeating Ganon, he frees Zelda from her prison, returning peace to the land.


=== The Adventure of Link ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Impa showing Princess Zelda to Link from The Adventure of Link 		 	 
The Zelda in The Adventure of Link is the second Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series.
The introduction of The Adventure of Link speaks of the legend of Zelda, a legend that has been passed down in Hyrule. According to that legend, well before the events of The Legend of Zelda, Hyrule was a prosperous land ruled by a king who had two children, an unnamed prince and Princess Zelda. The King maintained peace in Hyrule using the Triforce; however, he passed away, and although the prince should have received the Triforce in full, he only received a part of it. The prince frantically searched in vain everywhere for the remaining piece, but then a wizard came to the Prince and tells him that his younger sister, Zelda, knows the location of the mystical object. The prince demands that Zelda turn the information over to him, but Zelda refuses and, in a rage, the wizard puts Zelda into an eternal sleep, with him dying in the process. Overcome with grief, the prince seals his sleeping sister in the North Palace and orders that all female descendants of the Hylian monarchy are to be named Zelda.
To break the curse, a hero must possess the complete Triforce, but obtaining the Triforce of Courage would prove difficult as the king of ages ago had hidden it within the Great Palace. Only one who proved themselves worthy would obtain it.
In the end, Link obtains the Triforce of Courage from the Great Palace and awakes the sleeping princess from her slumber.
This Zelda is a different one from the original The Legend of Zelda even though both games feature the same Link.


=== Zelda (Game & Watch) ===


== Child Timeline ==
The Child Timeline is the timeline that follows Link after being sent back to his original time to warn Princess Zelda, following the defeat of Ganondorf by the Hero of Time in the final battle. This turn of events created the timeline containing Majora's Mask, Twilight Princess, and Four Swords Adventures.


=== Majora's Mask ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Memories of Princess Zelda 		 	 
Prior the events of Majora's Mask, Zelda spends a relatively short period of time with Link, before he leaves Hyrule for his quest in search of his companion Navi. Zelda, as a child, makes a single appearance in Majora's Mask when Link has a flashback after retrieving the Ocarina of Time from the Skull Kid. The events of the flashback display Link's last meeting with Zelda, where she states her belief that they would meet again. However, before Link departs the land of Hyrule, Princess Zelda gives him the Ocarina of Time to prevent Ganondorf from entering the Sacred Realm and as a memento of the time they spent together. She also teaches Link the "Song of Time", a melody that holds a special meaning to her, before handing over the ocarina, mentioning that he should play that melody if something were to happen to him so the Goddess of Time will come to his aid.
(This Zelda is the same one from Ocarina of Time)


=== Twilight Princess ===
See also: Puppet Zelda
The Zelda in Twilight Princess is the ninth Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the second Zelda chronologically in the Child Timeline branch. 

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Princess Zelda dressed in her dark attire 		 	 
In Twilight Princess, Zelda was the young matriarch of Hyrule until its invasion by Zant, the Twilight King, to whom she surrendered in order to prevent the deaths of herself and her people. Afterward, she is imprisoned inside a tower in Hyrule Castle. It is revealed that Zelda is unaffected by the veil of Twilight Zant casts upon Hyrule and does not become a spirit like all the other inhabitants of the kingdom. As the bearer of the Triforce of Wisdom, Zelda may have been protected by its power.
Zelda, dressed in a dark robe, meets Link during his earliest transformation into a wolf (due to the interaction between the Twilight and his Triforce piece). Later, she transfers her soul and her powers to aid the dying Midna, losing her physical being in the process.
Towards the end of the game, Ganondorf possesses the lifeless Zelda, who was being imprisoned in the throne room of Hyrule Castle, transforming her into an enemy known as Puppet Zelda. Link defeats Ganondorf's puppet, and Midna, with the help of the Fused Shadows, returns Princess Zelda to normal.
Ganondorf makes another attempt on Zelda's life soon after, but she is protected by the Light Spirits of Hyrule who grant her the Light Arrows to assist Link in the horseback part of his final battle. The last time she is seen in the game is when she and Link say good-bye to Midna at the Mirror of Twilight.


=== Four Swords Adventures ===
The Zelda in Four Swords Adventures is the seventh Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the third Zelda chronologically in the Child Timeline branch.
In Four Swords Adventures, Zelda used her telepathy to call Link to Hyrule Castle so she and him can join the Shrine Maidens to investigate the seal on Vaati at the Four Sword Sanctuary, due to ominous clouds of darkness covering Hyrule. However, while using their magic to check the seal, Shadow Link appeared and kidnapped Zelda and the six Maidens and sent Link to the Four Sword Sanctuary. This was all a trap by Shadow Link to cause Link to draw the Four Sword, releasing the seal on the Wind Mage Vaati, allowing him to escape.
Once rescued from Vaati, Link and Zelda flee down the Tower of Winds, similar to the escape from Ganon's Tower in Ocarina of Time. Zelda must be protected from damage during this escape. When nearing the exit however, the four Links and Zelda are sent tumbling deep beneath the tower by Ganon. While the four Link's are out cold, Zelda attempts to seal away Ganon with her magic, but is instead stopped and sealed away by Ganon himself. The four Links fight Ganon together, and eventually weaken him enough to break the seal on Zelda. Zelda then fights Ganon alongside the Links much like in The Wind Waker. While she does not wield the Light Arrows by name, she does wield a ball of light energy which, coupled with Link's arrows, serves the same function of the Light Arrows, stunning Ganon long enough for him to be drawn into the Four Sword. She must be protected from Ganon's attacks so the ball of light energy can become big enough to contain Ganon's evil might.


== Adult Timeline ==
The Adult Timeline is the timeline that follows the events after Link is being sent back to his original time, following the Hero of Time's defeat of Ganondorf in the final battle. Ganondorf is sealed within the Sacred Realm by the Seven Sages but, with Link sent back in time, the world is left without a Hero. This turn of events created the timeline containing The Wind Waker, Phantom Hourglass, and Spirit Tracks.


=== The Wind Waker ===
Main article: Tetra
The Zelda in The Wind Waker and Phantom Hourglass is the sixth Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the first Zelda chronologically in the Adult Timeline branch.
The Wind Waker presents Zelda in a secret identity as Tetra, a female pirate who leads a small group of thieves after the death of her mother. Tetra, however, is even unaware herself of being part of the royal bloodline, and this is a first occurrence for The Legend of Zelda series. Despite this, the female pirate is aware of the existence of Hyrule, the Master Sword, and the legend of the Hero of Time. Tetra's identity as a descendant of Princess Zelda is revealed when she travels with Link to Hyrule Castle, beneath the Great Sea.
Her true identity was first hinted when Link travels to the Forsaken Fortress for a second time and encounters Ganondorf, who, as he grasps Tetra in his hand, realizes that his Triforce of Power is resonating, which could only indicate that Tetra is indeed the Princess Zelda.
Zelda as Tetra displayed a tomboyish demeanor, taking challenges head on and even seeming bossy at times. At the beginning of the game, she does not think much of Link due to his habit of taking actions without thinking things through, and also due to the fact that he gets melancholic as they are setting sail to the Forsaken Fortress to rescue his sister. Once Tetra discovers her true identity, she gains more respect towards the young hero, and apologizes for all that has happened to him and Aryll. While Link and the King of Red Lions set out to look for the pieces of the Triforce of Courage, Zelda stays hidden away in a basement located inside Hyrule Castle in order to prevent getting caught by Ganondorf. However, she is eventually found and is taken to Ganon's Tower, where Link must rescue her after assembling the Triforce of Courage.
Zelda from The Wind Waker is the first Zelda in the series that fights along Link's side in his battle against Ganondorf. In battle, she wields the bow and Light Arrows, similar to her Twilight Princess counterpart. Once Link and Zelda succeed in delivering the final blow, they witness the second flood of Hyrule and promise the King of Hyrule to search for the new land that will be home to the next kingdom of Hyrule. Zelda is last seen as Tetra when she and Link set sail from Outset Island in search for new lands.


=== Phantom Hourglass ===
Princess Zelda appears in this game solely as Tetra, her alter ego in The Wind Waker. She does not regain her royal persona, although quite often when she appears, “Zelda's Lullaby” plays in the background, and she is called "Zelda" by some of the pirates during the game's intro, much to Tetra's chagrin. Her role is somewhat limited in the game as she is kidnapped early on in the story, and when Link finds her at last she has been turned to stone.  
After Link defeats Bellum, he and Tetra awaken on the Ghost Ship, only ten minutes after the prologue according to the pirates. Tetra's crew tries to convince her that it was just a dream, but Link finds the Phantom Hourglass in his pocket, and the SS Linebeck is seen sailing in the distance.
(This Zelda is the same one from The Wind Waker)


=== Spirit Tracks ===
See also: Phantom Zelda, Possessed Zelda
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Princess Zelda with the Spirit Flute 		 	 
The Zelda in Spirit Tracks is the tenth Zelda appearing in the The Legend of Zelda series, and the second Zelda chronologically in the Adult Timeline branch.
Princess Zelda plays a much larger role in Spirit Tracks than in previous installments, as she herself also aids Link in the salvation of Hyrule.  Near the beginning of the game, Link travels to Hyrule Castle to see Zelda and become an official train conductor. Because he is an engineer and the apprentice of Alfonzo, who was once the head of the castle guard, Zelda asks Link to secretly meet her in her quarters later to discuss something with him. Zelda explains to Link that she needs to get to the Tower of Spirits to personally investigate the disappearance of the Spirit Tracks, which she attributes to something that Chancellor Cole is hiding.
For the first time (not counting the non-canonical Phillips CD-i games), it is possible to play as Zelda herself as Link aids the princess to escape the castle. Afterward, Link, Zelda, and Alfonzo attempt to escape via train, but the train crashes due to the tracks disappearing beneath them. Chancellor Cole then appears to attack Zelda and take her body, which he hopes to use to revive the Demon King Malladus; however, Zelda's spirit escapes and returns to Hyrule Castle. There, she meets with Link, now the only one who can see her, to continue their way to the Tower of Spirits, where Zelda learns she can inhabit Phantoms to aid Link. After this, she and Link begin their journey to restore the Spirit Tracks leading to the Tower of Spirits to fortify the Malladus's prison and thus prevent the resurrection of the Demon King.

Zelda's body is eventually possessed by the resurrected Malladus, although Link frees it by firing a Light Arrow. Despite this, Zelda is unable to reenter her body, and just as Malladus is about to possess it again, Byrne uses his power to repel the Demon King, giving Zelda the strength to pray to her grandmother Tetra to reclaim her body. In the final battle, Zelda, finally back in her own body, charges up her power to weaken the Demon King, which reveals a weak spot on the demon's back. Like in previous games, Princess Zelda's role consists of shooting Light Arrows at Malladus's back from the Bow of Light. Just as Link realizes that he cannot make the final blow to Malladus using the Lokomo Sword on his own, Princess Zelda rushes over to help the young hero, defeating the demon once and for all. Anjean and the rest of the Lokomos depart to the heavens, entrusting Link and Zelda to watch over the land for them. Link and Zelda are then seen holding hands as they witness the departure of the Lokomos.
After the ending credits, Princess Zelda can be seen at her office signing papers and, depending on whether Link chose to be an engineer or a warrior, she will go look out the window and wave at Link upon hearing either a train whistle or swords clanking. If Link selects "Dunno", then Zelda will be signing papers and simply remember the adventure she had with Link.
This Princess Zelda is confirmed to be a direct descendant of Tetra, the pirate captain who was also the incarnation of Princess Zelda in her day, and makes an appearance in a large stained glass window in Hyrule Castle's Throne Room. Princess Zelda states that the Spirit Flute was played for her in her youth by her grandmother, and Anjean states that she gave the Spirit Flute to Tetra long ago, pointing out the similarities between the reigning Princess Zelda and her ancestor, the feisty pirate captain that arrived on the land's shores long ago.


== Great Calamity ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===

In Breath of the Wild, Zelda is not only the princess of Hyrule, she is also an aspiring scholar who is very curious. She is also the leader of the Champions of Hyrule. Zelda is the mysterious voice that guides Link throughout his journey while she contains Calamity Ganon inside of Hyrule Castle.
Zelda has been training to unlock her sealing powers passed down the royal family since she was 7 years old, one year after her mother unexpectedly passed away. With her mother gone there was nobody else around with the sacred power who could teach her how to use it, leaving Zelda to figure it out on her own. 100 years prior to the events of Breath of the Wild, Zelda met with the Champions. After meeting with them, she left the Castle to research ancient technology, but she did not come across anything of note. During this time, she felt the presence of Ganon and devoted herself to learning all she could about ancient relics in order to stop him. She then met with a fortune teller who told her a prophecy, to which Zelda felt that there was not much time left. The following day, Link was appointed as Zelda's knight, to Zelda's chagrin. During the ceremony, Urbosa explains that Link is a living reminder of Zelda's own failures. Link and Zelda then set out to Goron City to make adjustments to the Divine Beast Vah Rudania to make it easier for Daruk to control. During their journey to Eldin, Zelda comes to a stop and asks him how proficient he is wielding his Sword and asks him if he can hear the voice within the blade.
During her time with Link, Zelda wonders why he never speaks. Link's initial silence causes Zelda to believe that Link despised her due to her inability to use sealing power despite being a daughter of Hyrule's royal family. Later on, Zelda discovers an Ancient Shrine and fails to open it. Link arrives at the scene, which angers Zelda and causes her to lash out. She tells Link to return to the castle and testily demands he stop following her, regardless of the King's orders. Later on, Zelda travels to the Gerudo Desert and is ambushed by the Yiga Clan. Link rescues her right before a Yiga assassin is about to kill her, striking him down and causing the other two Yiga to flee. This causes Zelda to change her attitude towards Link, valuing his devotion to protect her. Over the course of their journey, both start to open up to each other and realize how similar they are in their hardships of fulfilling their respective tasks. Her growing care and relationship towards Link plays a crucial role in awakening her legendary abilities, as Link sacrifices himself to save Zelda's life during the second Great Calamity and Zelda's powers awaken when she tries to rescue the wounded Link from a Guardian. Zelda then spends the next 100 years inside Hyrule Castle with Calamity Ganon, keeping the demon in place within the Castle to prevent the destruction of the entirety of Hyrule. After Link awakens, she then telepathically guides him throughout his journey. Unfortunately, she was not able to hold off Calamity Ganon for much longer before he developed a rudimentary body. After Link managed to disable Calamity Ganon's most powerful form, Dark Beast Ganon, she was freed, and proceeded to destroy Calamity Ganon's essence. She then reconvened with Link for the first time in a hundred years, and asked him if he still remembered her (as Link was initially left with amnesia thanks to his near-death experience). Some time later, she alongside Link left for Lake Hylia in order to investigate what caused the Divine Beast Vah Ruta to stop working, and that they ultimately need to restore Hyrule back to its former glory.
Her favorite food is Fruitcake, as revealed by a recipe in a book in the Library in Hyrule Castle.


=== Sequel to Breath of the Wild ===

Princess Zelda appears in the Sequel to Breath of the Wild. Picking up where the true ending left off, Zelda alongside Link traversed through a cave, only to find a mummified Gerudo corpse with an ethereal hand touching its chest, as well as it attracting Malice. She eventually ended up separated from Link, and witnessed the corpse revive itself via the malice.


== Other Appearances ==
Main article: Princess Zelda/Other Appearances
Princess is also featured in other media, including comics based on the games, animated shows, and the Super Smash Bros. series. In some of her appearances, she is depicted as a brave, proud, and self-reliant fighter who is proficient in archery and horseback riding, such as in the The Legend of Zelda comics by Valiant Comics and The Legend of Zelda TV series. As with the games, she is the protector of the Triforce of Wisdom.


== Alter Egos ==


=== Sheik ===

Main article: Sheik
In Ocarina of Time, Link met up with a mysterious member of the Sheikah Tribe, fittingly called Sheik. This person taught Link a multitude of different songs and gave him tips on how to proceed in his quest. At the end of the game, Sheik revealed himself to be none other than Princess Zelda in a disguise. During the seven years Link had been asleep while maturing to become ready to fight Ganondorf, Zelda had gone underground and taken the disguise as Sheik so that Ganondorf would not find her in his search for the two remaining pieces of the Triforce, one which was held by Princess Zelda herself.
Sheik is also a playable character in Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Smash Bros. Brawl: Zelda is able to transform into Sheik during a battle, allowing her to use a different set of moves.


=== Tetra ===
Main article: Tetra
Born into a society of pirates on the Great Sea, Tetra, captain of a crew of pirates, was completely unaware that she was a member of the Royal Family of Hyrule's bloodline. When this was revealed to her by Daphnes Nohansen Hyrule, she was just as surprised as Link to find out that she was indeed a descendant of Princess Zelda of Hyrule and also the one destined to be the keeper of the Triforce of Wisdom.


=== Leader of the Sages ===
In Ocarina of Time, Zelda is revealed to be the seventh Sage and the leader of them all. Though no conclusive evidence has been sighted, Zelda is often seen as the proverbial Sage of Time, via several events that occur in Ocarina of Time.


=== Goddess Hylia ===
Main article: Hylia
Before the events of Skyward Sword, a goddess named Hylia defeated Demise. In order to protect the Triforce, in a two-part plan, Hylia renounced her divine body to reborn in an human being. This human was born eons after under the name of Zelda.


== Other Princesses of Hyrule ==
Besides the Princess Zeldas that appear in the games, the back story to some of the games feature additional unnamed Princesses of Hyrule who have a similar appearance to Princess Zelda.


=== Princess from the Minish Legend ===
See also: Minish Legend
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Princess of Hyrule from the Minish Legend 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Princess of Hyrule from before the Great Flood 		 	 
The back story of The Minish Cap tells of the Minish Legend. In the Minish Legend, a hero clad in green clothes, the Hero of Men arose to fight the demons attacking the world. This story of the Minish Legend is depicted in a series of stained glass windows beneath the Elemental Sanctuary. One of the stained glass windows depicts a Princess of Hyrule wielding the Light Force. Using the stained glass window, Vaati is able to deduce that the Light Force is currently held by the current Princess Zelda.


=== Antediluvian Princess ===
See also: Tetra's Pirate Crew
In The Wind Waker, when Link travels to Hyrule Castle beneath the Great Sea, there is a portrait of the Princess of Hyrule (around the age of Tetra) from before the Great Flood hanging on the wall of the castle. In the portrait, the princess is surrounded by several characters, all of which have a counterpart to a member of Tetra's Pirate Crew. It is known that during the Great Flood, she took a piece of the Triforce of Wisdom which had been broken in two by her father and fled to the mountaintops with several of her servants.


=== Ten Thousands Years prior to Breath of the Wild ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Princess of Hyrule from 10,000 years ago 		 	 
Learned by Impa and Kass, the Zelda that lived ten thousand years prior to the events of Breath of the Wild assisted Link and the four Champions in defending Hyrule from Calamity Ganon. Successfully defeating the Calamity, Zelda sealed Ganon away for ten thousand years, leading to his release one hundred years before the events of Breath of the Wild.


== Zelda's Weapons ==


=== Bow and Arrows of Light ===
Main article: Zelda's Bow
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Zelda using her Bow in Twilight Princess 		 	 
In several games, starting with Ocarina of Time, Zelda either wields the Light Arrows or bestows them on Link, allowing him to defeat Ganon. In some cases, she is also able to summon a magical bow made from pure light in order to fire the arrows.
In Hyrule Warriors, the magical bow and light arrows can be summoned as part of Zelda's combos and special attacks while wielding her rapiers.


=== Rapier ===
In Twilight Princess, Zelda carries an ornate rapier, seemingly as a sword of state. When possessed by Ganondorf, she also uses it as a weapon against Link.
In Hyrule Warriors, this rapier is named the "Polished Rapier", and is one of several rapiers the princess can use, alongside the more ornate Glittering Rapier, the extravagant Gleaming Rapier, which also bears the royal crest, and the humorous 8-Bit White Sword, a joke weapon.


=== Baton ===
While Zelda does not wield the Wind Waker in its titular introduction, The Wind Waker, it is claimed to be an instrument of the royal family used by the monarch in conducting the Sages.
In Hyrule Warriors, Zelda is able to use the Wind Waker to conduct magical songs that summon wind and lightning. She can also use the Sacred Baton, which resembles a crystallized gust of wind, and the Glorious Baton, which resembles a Great Fairy's locks of hair.


== Trivia ==
Link's Awakening and Tri Force Heroes are the only games where Princess Zelda's presence is completely absent. However, Link mentions her at the beginning of Link's Awakening. Princess Zelda's clothing, the Legendary Dress, also appears in Tri Force Heroes, which is based on its design from A Link Between Worlds.
Breath of the Wild is the first main series game to supply Princess Zelda with English voice acting. In it, she speaks with an English accent. It is technically also the second main series game to supply full voice acting overall, with the Navi Trackers mode for the Japanese version of Four Swords Adventures being the first with Zelda's alter-ego Tetra.
What Zelda says to Link regarding his memories and courage immediately prior to the final battle with Ganon in Breath of the Wild varied between languages. In the Japanese version, Zelda states that she believes in Link and his courage regardless of whether he regained his memories, while in the English localization, she instead states that courage doesn't need to be remembered due to one never forgetting the concept in the first place.
During the final battle with Ganon in Ocarina of Time and its remake Ocarina of Time 3D, whenever Link ends up hit by one of Ganon's attacks, Princess Zelda can be heard gasping in horror.


== Nomenclature ==
Shigeru Miyamoto stated that the Princess Zelda's name originated from Zelda Fitzgerald, the wife of the acclaimed author, F. Scott Fitzgerald. The name "Zelda" ultimately derives from "Griselda," which may come from the Germanic elements gris ("gray") and hild ("battle"). Griselda itself means "happy", "lucky", or "blessed", while Grizelda means "endless patience". 


== Gallery ==


== See Also ==
Toon Zelda


== References ==