Purah is a recurring character in The Legend of Zelda series.[name reference needed]


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Purah is the director of the Hateno Ancient Tech Lab, where she works with her assistant Symin. Her research and experimentation with an anti-aging Rune caused her to grow younger. Though she appears as a young girl, she is around 124 years old. She is the older sister of Impa and the oldest Sheikah alive, save for Monk Maz Koshia.
When first approached by Link, she gives him a greeting and asks if he has come for the director of the Lab. If he says yes, she claims that Symin is the director and asks Link not to bother him long. She does take a moment to notice that Link appears to be a traveler on an adventure. Should Link say that he'd spoken to the director, she pretends to be pleased and hopes that he remembers the Lab fondly.
Once Link has been informed of her true identity, she confirms it. Purah asks him about any dreams he may have had during his Slumber of Restoration, calling him "Linky" and pointing out that he has not changed. She is happy to see him well, but his blank look helps her realize that he no longer recognizes her. Purah reveals that she was the one to originally take Link to the Shrine of Resurrection. She asks Link again if he cannot remember her and his response prompts her to pull out a notebook to take notes. Purah admits that she does this often and asks Link if he has any questions.
Naturally, Link is confused by her appearance. At first, Purah claims his observation is rude, but realizes that he has a good point. She explains that it is due to a faulty experiment and asks him not to look into it in her Diary. She pushes the topic back to Calamity Ganon and Link's quest. Purah explains that she intends to help him by fixing the Sheikah Slate. If Link asks her to repeat what she said, Purah pulls out her notebook again to note it before telling him to pay attention. Should Link decide to refuse, Purah is at first annoyed, but then decides to give him the time to change his mind.
Once Link agrees to Purah's help, she asks him to run a quick errand. Link seems to give her an odd look and she asks if he thought she would help him for free. If Link admits that he did, she will take more notes. If he says he did not expect that, Purah decides that he is surprisingly considerate for his age. Purah explains the errand for him, stating that she requires their furnace lit to restore his Runes. She quietly wonders if people still use the same language that she does.
Once she gives Link his task, he may ask her about a number of things. Should he ask about the ancient furnace, she will tell him where it is located. Questioning her about the Blue Flame itself will prompt her to give him advice on how to get it back to Laboratory. If he asks her who she is, she gives her name again and uses her catchphrase. However, she realizes that Link is looking for her true age and shoots down any hope of getting it from her, telling him not to ask her too many questions about herself. Whenever she's done answering a question, Purah will ask if Link has any others for her. Purah will mention that there is a Torch nearby that Link can use in his task.
Link can actually light the furnace before ever speaking to Purah. As soon they speak, Purah makes it clear that she is surprised to see him. At first, she tries out her new catchphrase on him, but realizes this is not the time. She finally asks Link if he was the one to bring the Blue Flame up to the Lab. Once Link admits to being the culprit, Purah believes that he woke from his Slumber of Restoration in fairly good condition. Purah then introduces herself and reveals that she knows the Sheikah Slate is in need of repair. When Link confirms this, she is pleased that she predicted the issue, but informs the hero that she has a number of questions to ask first. She then moves into the usual dialogue.
Once this is completed, she will add the Camera Rune and the Sheikah Sensor to the Sheikah Slate. Purah then asks Link to take a picture of her. Link can ask her about the new Camera function. The director will tell him how Princess Zelda had once used it and how to create an image with it, reminding him of her request for a self-portrait. Asking her about a picture will prompt Purah to define it for him, mentioning the Hyrule Compendium and advising him take as many pictures as possible. If he says he needs a moment to prepare the Camera, she tells him not to worry, but makes it clear she is looking forward to it.
When she sees the picture Link takes of her, Purah is very pleased with her appearance. For a moment, she is too overwhelmed to continue the conversation. Once she snaps out of it, Purah takes notice of Princess Zelda's excessive use of the Camera and realizes that Link was likely with the Princess at each of the locations in the pictures. While Link's memory loss proves troublesome, she declares that the newly found photos may help him recover it. To this end, Purah sends the hero back to Impa in order to learn more. Before he sets out, the director asks him to return later with Ancient Materials, promising a reward for delivering them to either her or her companion in research, Robbie.
She believes Robbie is her subordinate, and hasn't seen him in 100 years despite being research companions. After the Calamity Robbie and Purah purposefully set up their labs in different places so that if one of them died the other would still be around to help Link when he awoke.
She will upgrade the Sheikah Sensor, Remote Bombs, and Stasis runes in exchange for 3 Ancient Screws, 3 Ancient Shafts, and 3 Ancient Cores, respectively.


== Other Appearances ==


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===


== Trivia ==
Most concept art shows Purah with brown eyes, the same as her sister and great niece. This was changed to red in the final version of Breath of the Wild.


== Nomenclature ==
Purah's name is derived from prune.


== Gallery ==

		
		
		


== References ==