Rensa is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Rensa is found at the front of Dueling Peaks Stable. He welcomes Link and asks what he thinks of the place. Rensa tells the hero that although it may be hard to believe, the area was nearly destroyed about 100 years ago. Even so, Rensa cites the blessings of the Dueling Peaks as the reason everything is full of life again and the Wild Horses have returned. Rensa asks Link where he is heading and says that both Kakariko Village and Hateno Village are nearby. If asked about the Wild Horses, Rensa asks if Link did not see any Horses on his way here. He points out that there are still quite a few around, though certainly not as many as in years past. He informs Link that Horses in the wild are untamed, as no one has trained or cared for them. Rensa advises Link to let his brother Tasseren know if he manages to catch and tame a Horse so he can register it for him. Rensa's boys, Shibo and Darton, are incredibly knowledgeable about Horses, so he tells Link to feel free to pick their brains.
When asked about Kakariko Village, Rensa says it is the Village where the Sheikah clan lives. He tells Link that some time ago the Sheikah had advanced techniques that were more powerful than anything anyone had seen, but because that power put them at odds with the king at the time, the Sheikah were scattered across the land. If Link leaves the Stable and follows the path straight to the north, he will find Kakariko Bridge. Crossing the Bridge and following the path will lead him to the Kakariko Village gate. When asked about Hateno Village, Rensa says it is a Village on the edge of Hyrule, and was largely unaffected by the events of the Great Calamity so the people are easygoing. Rensa tells Link that he has heard Hateno has a research center, but that folks tend to avoid Purah, the weird scientist who lives there. Rensa tells Link to head north until he reaches a fork in the road, then to follow the road to the east. He says it is a far distance if walked, but with a Horse Link should reach Hateno Village in under a day. After Link says goodbye, Rensa says that although everything in the area looks just as it always has, the effects of the Great Calamity still linger, and he warns the hero to be careful at night when monsters appear. 
If spoken to afterwards, Rensa notes that Horses are wild, so until Link calms them down it will be a crazy ride. Even so, Rensa claims there is no feeling quite like taming a wild stallion. Rensa then boasts that he took second place in the Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition. When he sees the look Link gives him, Rensa challenges the hero to a tame-off. If Link declines, Rensa asks if he would dare turn down a challenge from the second-greatest Horse tamer in the world. Rensa realizes there is not much he can do about that, however, and states it is only natural that the title of Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition Runner-Up would strike fear in Link's heart. Rensa claims that he himself would never run and hide, and tells Link to come back when he has the confidence to challenge his taming skills. However, if Link accepts the challenge, Rensa praises Link's competitive spirit. The only rule of the challenge is that Link has to bring a wild Horse back to the spot Rensa is standing in under two minutes, which is Rensa's record. This begins the "Wild Horses" Side Quest. Rensa advises Link that because Horses are skittish, it's best to approach them quietly. Rensa also asks Link that he not stray too far from the Stable, as he would not be able to record an accurate time. If Link fails to return with a Horse under the two-minute time limit, Rensa acknowledges the challenge of the task, but tells Link to not be discouraged, and that it took him years to place second in the competition.
Once Link has caught a Horse and brought it back before time runs out, Rensa is amazed that Link could beat his record so easily. Rensa then admits that the only participants who actually competed in the Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition were his brother and himself. He gives Link the purse for winning the second Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition, which is a Purple Rupee. After Link's show of talent, Rensa guesses there is more competition out there than he originally knew about, and that maybe Hyrule is not all bad after all. If Link asks Rensa about Wild Horses after completing the challenge, Rensa will be surprised, as Link was the one to beat him, the man who placed second in the Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition.


== Nomenclature ==


== See Also ==
Darton
Hyrule Horse-Taming Competition
Shibo
Tasseren
Wild Horses


== References ==