Ripp is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Ripp is a Gerudo soldier who guards the Kara Kara Bazaar. She sometimes patrols around the Bazaar. When Link first meets Ripp, she welcomes him to Kara Kara Bazaar and recommends resting in the Bazaar before heading to Gerudo Town. However, Ripp explains that Link will not be able to get into Gerudo Town due to him being a man. She recommends staying away from Gerudo Town anyway because of the storm caused by the Divine Beast Vah Naboris and tells him to be careful if he plans to travel there. If Link asks Ripp about Gerudo Town, she tells him that it is to the southwest and is the biggest town in the Gerudo Desert. She goes on to explain that Gerudo Town is famous for trade and that there is a law forbidding men from entering the city. If Link asks about the Divine Beast, Ripp explains that it was once the guardian deity for the Gerudo people, but suddenly started acting up. She says that there is nothing they can do to stop it because it is protected by a fierce sandstorm and lightning. Ripp says that it probably will not head toward the Kara Kara Bazaar, but she keeps an eye on it regardless. Link thanks Ripp for her vigilance, but she replies that it is only her job. Ripp also warns Link to be prepared for the Desert, explaining that it is very hot during the day and very cold at night. If Link speaks to Ripp while wearing the Gerudo Set, she comments that Link is the second Hylian she has seen wearing Gerudo clothing, referring to Vilia. Ripp thinks that the other Hylian looked more Gerudo and is puzzled why Gerudo clothing is so popular among Hylians.
If Link speaks to Ripp while searching for the man who discovered a way into Gerudo Town, he asks Ripp if she has seen a merchant. Ripp says that she has seen many merchants, explaining that all of the male merchants gather at the Bazaar in hopes of gaining access to Gerudo Town. She says that they refuse to give up despite being strictly forbidden from entering the Town. Ripp then recalls a particular female merchant at the Inn who wore Gerudo clothes. She reasons that the merchant is probably still at the Bazaar because the Divine Beast is scaring people from traveling. Before Link leaves, Ripp offers to answer Link's questions any time because it is nice to have someone to talk to while on watch.
After Link calms Naboris, Ripp says that the Desert is still full of monsters. Ripp also says that it is about time for someone to relieve her duties, muttering that she really wants to get back to Gerudo Town in time to relax at The Noble Canteen.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==