Robsten is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Robsten is a Hylian man who can be found at the Kara Kara Bazaar. Robsten is part of a group of traveling Hylian merchants, with Benja as their leader. He is stranded at the Kara Kara Bazaar because men are not allowed into Gerudo Town. When Link first speaks to Robsten, he asks whether Link is a merchant or a traveler. If Link says he is a merchant, he says that he is also a merchant and concludes that Link must also be stranded at the Bazaar. If Link says he is a traveler, Robsten just explains that he is a merchant. Robsten then continues to explain that his group wanted to sell their goods at Gerudo Town, but were not allowed in because they are men. Their leader, Benja, went to Gerudo Town to negotiate and figure out a way to get into the town. Robsten says that their leader has not come back yet, speculating that he is still figuring out a way to get inside. Robsten feels that Gerudo Town is so close, yet so far. He also comments that most travelers cannot get farther than the Town because of the Divine Beast Vah Naboris. If Link speaks to Robsten while wearing the Gerudo Set, he is shocked to see him and thinks he is a girl. Robsten then asks Link if he is there by himself, commenting that the Desert is dangerous. Robsten promises to be there for him if he is ever afraid.
If Link speaks to Robsten while searching for the man who discovered a way into Gerudo Town, Robsten is expressing worry that their boss has not returned from Gerudo Town and speculates that he will not be coming back that day. When Link informs Robsten with Benja's news about the man who sneaks into Gerudo Town and travels between the Town and the Bazaar, Robsten is surprised and says that it must be true if his boss says so. Robsten claims to have never seen a sneaky guy around the Bazaar, but does recall seeing a pretty Hylian girl at the general store who dresses like a Gerudo. Robsten then wonders where she bought the Gerudo clothes and wonders if wearing them would allow him to sneak into Gerudo Town, but quickly dismisses the idea.
After Link calms Naboris, Robsten sits beside Benja and says that he never figured out how to sneak into Gerudo Town.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==