Rotana is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Rotana is a Gerudo archaeologist who lives in Gerudo Town. Link can begin the Shrine Quest, "The Seven Heroines", by speaking to her. If Link speaks to Rotana, he will catch her muttering something about a sandstorm to herself before she turns around and notices Link. When Rotana notices Link, she asks what a "Hylian vai" is doing there. If Link says he has to go, Rotana becomes upset that he is leaving already and thought he wanted to hear the legend of the Seven Heroines. Rotana mutters that she hoped someone would listen to her because her sister, Pearle, will not. If Link asks Rotana what she is doing, she introduces herself and says that she was just analyzing part of an ancient text that she discovered recently. Rotana feels that she can get recognition for this discovery and that Link arriving must be fate. Rotana offers to share her research with Link if he promises to keep it secret. If Link says he has to go, Rotana becomes upset, demanding that he listens and tells him about her research anyway. If Link instead promises to keep it a secret, she will simply tell him about her research. Rotana tells Link of a temple to the east near the entrance of Gerudo Desert. She tells Link that the temple is dedicated to giant statues of the seven heroines who once protected the Gerudo people. Rotana also tells Link of the ancient scripture that she discovered there, which serves as a clue for the Shine Quest. Rotana explains that this was all she has been able to decipher so far. She also explains that people once traveled in search of the heroines' blessing, but no one has ever found it. If Link asks about the blessing, Rotana says that she is not sure what it means yet. Rotana then explains that the heroines are said to each hold a different power, which include skill, spirit, endurance, knowledge, flight, motion and gentleness. Rotana thinks they all look the same, so she is unable to decipher which heroine holds which power without understanding the entire script. Rotana is also concerned about the Divine Beast Vah Naboris wandering the Desert and hindering her research, exclaiming that Naboris has "no respect for academia." Rotana also says that she knows the place referenced in the ancient script, but she needs to finish deciphering it. If Link asks where the place is, she reiterates that it is near the entrance to the Gerudo Desert, but adds that the nearby sandstorm is a problem. She also mentions that approaching the temple will be difficult with the Divine Beast around. When Link ends the conversation, Rotana wishes that her sister, Pearle, was more like Link and took interest in her research instead of obsessing over Lady Urbosa.
If Link speaks to Rotana after completing the "The Seven Heroines", she is ecstatic that the Shrine that appeared at the temple must be a trial given to her by the Seven Heroines. She believes that she will be the star of the archaeological society after she completes the trial.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		
		


== References ==