Shabonne is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Shabonne is a Gerudo who coaches Tali, the Sand-Seal Racing champion. She can be found with Tali at the Sand-Seal Rally in the Gerudo Desert. If Link approaches the nearby Ancient Orb, Shabonne scolds him and exclaims that only those who have proven themselves may touch it. If Link talks to Shabonne, she apologizes to him because Tali is not in the mood for autographs. If Link asks what happened, Shabonne explains that the Sand-Seal Race course is unusable with the Divine Beast Vah Naboris stomping around. She then rudely tells him that he can stand around, but that she would prefer he did it elsewhere. If Link asks about Sand-Seal Racing, Shabonne is surprised that Link has not heard of it and explains that it is a sport where people guide Sand Seals through arches on a race course. Shabonne says that the racer with the fastest time wins, but they cannot run any races with the Divine Beast around. If Link asks who Tali is, Shabonne is in disbelief that he does not know the Sand-Seal Racing champion and says that Tali could demonstrate her skills if it were not for the Divine Beast. If Link asks Shabonne who she is, she explains that she is the one who raised Tali into a racing champion. She goes on to say that it was not easy and that her relationship with Tali is great despite Tali's shyness. Shabonne asks Tali if that is right, and Tali responds with silence as usual. Shabonne is angry that the Divine Beast has upset Tali. She also comments that the cold Desert nights must be rough on Hylians and that the Gerudo are used to it.
When Link returns to the Sand-Seal Rally after calming Naboris, the Sand-Seal Race will be open again. Link can speak to Shabonne or Tali to begin the Shrine Quest, "The Undefeated Champ". Shabonne tells Link that if he can beat Tali's record of 1:30, he can have a trophy. The trophy that Shabonne refers to is the nearby Ancient Orb needed to reveal the Ancient Shrine, which has been passed down by ten thousand years of Sand-Seal Racing champions. Shabonne charges Link 50 Rupees to race against Tali's record. When Link beats Tali's record and places the Ancient Orb into its pedestal, the Raqa Zunzo Shrine rises from the ground and the Shrine Quest is completed.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==