Sidon is a recurring character in The Legend of Zelda series.[name reference needed]


== Biography ==


=== Breath of the Wild ===
Sidon is the prince of the Zora, the son of King Dorephan and the brother of Mipha. He first encounters Link in Breath of the Wild at Inogo Bridge while on his way to Zora's Domain. Sidon requests Link to come to his home in hopes of helping quell the rains caused by the Divine Beast Vah Ruta, which were threatening to burst the dams surrounding Zora's Domain. He gives Link an Electro Elixir to aid against the monsters who attack with Electricity ahead. As Link makes his way to Zora's Domain, Sidon encourages the hero from the river.
When Link approaches the throne room, he is encountered by Muzu, an elderly Zora who remembers him from 100 years ago. Muzu insists that it is because of Link that Mipha had died, stolen from her kingdom who loved her dearly. Sidon then defends Link as the only one who can save their home. When King Dorephan presents Link with the Zora Armor, Muzu berates the King for gifting Link the Armor. He claims that crafting a Zora Armor is an act that a Zora princess would only do for her future husband and finds Link unworthy of Mipha's love and hard work. He then proceeds to head to Mipha's statue in the town square to reminisce. Sidon then confronts Muzu, stating that even though he was too young to understand it at the time, Mipha had feelings for Link. When Link puts the Armor on and approaches Muzu, Sidon comments on how the armor fits Link perfectly. Sidon's words resonate within Muzu, who agrees to help them take down the Divine Beast.
After Link gathers the Shock Arrows needed to take down Divine Beast Vah Ruta, he meets up with Sidon at the East Reservoir Lake, where the Divine Beast is stationed. Sidon and Link battle the mechanical beast together, with Sidon swimming around the lake and Link firing Arrows while riding his back. After destroying the sources of Water on the Divine Beast's back, Sidon escorts Link to the boarding platform before it rises too high for Link to get on board.
After Link frees Mipha's spirit and takes control of Divine Beast Vah Ruta from Calamity Ganon, King Dorephan greets Link and congratulates him on his victory when he returns to Zora's Domain, as well as commending Sidon for his assistance in Ruta's recovery. Sidon becomes a tad emotional, having a moment of silence following his father claiming that Mipha would be proud of his actions and that he will one day make a great king, before enthusiastically thanking Link for ending the crisis. If Link speaks to Sidon after this, the Zora will proclaim that he is both thankful and proud of Link for his assistance. Sidon can usually be found outside of his father's throne room, but he will go gaze at Mipha's statue at night. If Link approaches him from behind, he can hear Sidon commenting on her status as a lingering spirit within Ruta. Sidon expresses that he misses Mipha and wishes she was still around to give him words of wisdom as she did when they were young. When he catches Link listening, Sidon apologizes to Link for catching him in a moment of weakness.
If Link goes to the throne room of Zora's Domain without first activating the "Reach Zora's Domain" Main Quest at Inogo Bridge, a different cutscene will play. Sidon will be in the throne room and will hear Link walking up the stairs, exclaiming that the king is not accepting visitors at the time and preparing to escort Link out before realizing that the visitor is a Hylian. The major character introduction text 'Prince Sidon, Zora Prince' appears below the prince's head as it would have in the Inogo Bridge cutscene, and Sidon asks the guest why he didn't say he was a Hylian in the first place, before inviting him in vigorously. King Dorephan's dialogue is changed slightly to reflect the fact that Link suddenly appeared as if by miracle, instead of being found and directed by Sidon. After this, the "Reach Zora's Domain" Main Quest will appear and be instantly completed, and the "Divine Beast Vah Ruta" Main Quest appears as normal.


== Other Appearances ==


=== Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity ===


== Trivia ==
Sidon's final design was originally gray, however, it was changed to red in-game so he could stand out more in Zora's Domain and closely resemble his sister, Mipha.
In a Q/A video between ZeldaDungeon and Jamie Mortellaro, Breath of the Wild′s Lead Voice Director and English Voice Actor for Sidon, Jamie stated that Sidon is acknowledged by Nintendo as Breath of the Wild′s most popular character among fans.
Sidon is the only "Second Generation Champion" to not be voiced in English by the same voice actor as their predecessor.


== Nomenclature ==
Sidon comes from the musical notes si and do. Alternatively, it could also originate from Poseidon, the Greek God of the sea.


== Gallery ==

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		


== See Also ==
Ralis


== References ==