Tula is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
Before Link enters Zora's Domain to appease the Divine Beast Vah Ruta, Tula can be found singing and swimming in a pond near the Daka Tuss Shrine. She will call to Link and remark that he is a Hylian. She exclaims that his timing is perfect, since she has been ordered by Sidon to find a Hylian. She says that she has been searching nonstop, and was not floating and splashing in the Water for fun. Tula will turn and point at a Sheikah Tower, and tell Link that Sidon is waiting at Inogo Bridge on the other side. She expresses hope that Link will go and meet the Zora prince, but realizes he is probably taken aback by such a sudden request. Apologizing, she explains that for the Zora, this is their top priority at the moment. Tula asks for Link to grant her request, and tells the hero not to let Sidon know she was splashing and playing in the water.
Tula is the president of Sidon's fan club. Thinking of Sidon "turns her to mush," though she expresses great distaste towards the Zora elders calling them a pack of geezers. Tula apologizes and encourages Link to speak with the prince, who she says is a man with magnificent ideas. After Link appeases the Divine Beast Vah Ruta, Tula can be seen running around Zora's Domain. When stopped she tells Link he is in her way and asks if he needs something. If Link asks about the "pack of geezers," Tula says the Zora elders intend to stop Divine Beast Vah Ruta without any outside help, even though it is impossible for the Zora to touch Shock Arrows for an extended period of time. However, Sidon had the idea to ask an outsider to shoot the shock arrows for them. Tula says Sidon has such bold ideas. If Link asks about the Divine Beast, Tula says that she means Divine Beast Vah Ruta in East Reservoir Lake. Tula brings up that the bad weather seems to have calmed down, wondering if Sidon has finally appeased the Divine Beast. 
After Waterblight Ganon is defeated, Tula and the other Zora watch as King Dorephan gives Link his thanks. She cheers with the other Zora after Sidon thanks the hero as well.


== Nomenclature ==


== References ==