Vilia is a character in Breath of the Wild.


== Biography ==
In Link's journey to meet with the leader of the Gerudo, he learns that men are forbidden from entering Gerudo Town. If Link speaks to Benja outside Gerudo Town, he will tell Link that he heard of a man who snuck into Gerudo Town and that he is waiting to see this man in order to find out how he was able to infiltrate the Town. This initiates the "Forbidden City Entry" Main Quest, directing Link to the Kara Kara Bazaar in search of this rumored man. After this, Vilia will appear atop the General Store at Kara Kara Bazaar, where she is dressed in traditional Gerudo vai clothing. Speaking to Vilia, she will apologize to Link for being unable to assist in his search for a Hylian man who snuck into Gerudo Town. Link is given the option to examine her face closer, which flusters her. Link can accuse Vilia of being a man in disguise, which she will dismiss and consequently suggest that he leaves. If Link talks to Vilia again after this, she reiterates that she does not know anything about a man in disguise. If Link instead compliments her appearance, she will be flattered and offer to sell him a pair of Gerudo clothes. Vilia will charge 600 Rupees for the full Gerudo Set and prompt Link to put them on immediately if he accepts the deal.
After Link has donned the Gerudo Set, Vilia will squeal in excitement and assure him that nobody will suspect him to be a man while he wears it. Vilia also explains that the Gerudo Set helps with the scorching Temperatures in Gerudo Desert, referring to its heat-resistant Set Bonus. Afterwards, Vilia invites Link to enjoy a meal with her when he is free to do so. A strong gust of wind blows away Vilia's Veil shortly afterwards, revealing her face and shocking Link. Upon affixing the Veil to her face once more, she warns Link to watch out for the wind. Bidding farewell, Vilia tells Link to come back any time if he wants more women's clothing.
If Link talks to Vilia again, she will talk about the giant monster kicking up the sandstorm south of the Bazaar known as the Divine Beast Vah Naboris. Vilia claims that it began wandering the Desert several weeks ago and wonders what it is. Vilia informs Link that she also heard that the Gerudo Chief, Riju, is having trouble handling the situation and says that Gerudo Town would be helpless if the Divine Beast headed there. Vilia then changes the subject, saying that Link looks adorable in the Gerudo clothes. However, if Link speaks to Vilia without the full Gerudo Set on, she asks what happened to the outfit and questions Link's conviction to enter Gerudo Town. Vilia warns Link that the guards will catch him quickly if he is not disguised and tells him not to be shy about wearing the Gerudo clothes. Vilia then offers to sell each piece of the Gerudo Set separately for 200 Rupees each. If Link attempts to purchase from Vilia without enough Rupees, she calls Link a tease for "toying with a lady's emotions". Vilia then yells at Link, claiming that she can make him squeal, only to quickly change her tone and offer to buy from Link if he needs money.


=== Wares and Pricing ===


== Trivia ==
According to Breath of the Wild – Creating a Champion, Vilia's birth name may have been different from her current name.


== Nomenclature ==


== Gallery ==

		


== Notes ==


== References ==